Citywide Cleanup 2017
Close
Friday, May 12, 2017
Home
News & Updates
Event Calendar
Attica Map
City Directory
City Contact
City Government
Mayor’s Office
Updates
City Council
Updates
Ordinances & Resolutions
Clerk-Treasurer
Board of Works
Updates
City Court
Departments & Services
Building Services
Updates
Cemetery
Fire Department
Updates
Parks Department
Updates
Police Department
Updates
Street Department
Updates
Business & Community
Residents
Attica Utilities
Utility Payments
Parks & Recreation
Visiting Attica
History of Attica
Cottrell Villiage
Upcoming Events
News & Updates
You are here:
Home
>
Council Proceedings – December 12, 2016
Council Proceedings – December 12, 2016
Published on
January 16, 2017
under
City Council
, 
News
The Common Council for the City of Attica met on December 12, 2016, at 6:00 P.M. pursuant to public notice.
Those present at the meeting were: board members; Mr. Larry Askren, Mr. Bill Craft, Mrs. Valarie Maus, and Mr. Matthew Madden. Also present were: Mayor Roderick; Attorney, Tom O’Connor; and Clerk-Treasurer, Susan Stoll.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mrs. Maus made a motion to approve the minutes from the November 14, 2016 meeting. Mr. Askren seconded the motion. All were in favor and the motion passed. Mr. Madden made a motion to approve the minutes from the November 28, 2016 meeting, Mr. Craft seconded the motion, all were in favor.
CITIZENS PETITIONS
There were none.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were none.
DEPARTMENT HEADS
Streets Superintendent, Mr. Jean: 
was not present; Mayor Roderick reported on his behalf that leaf pickup is complete for the year.
Police Department, Chief Cole: 
present; nothing to report.
Fire Department, Chief O’Farrell: 
present; gave report on runs for the year to date.
Building Commissioner, Mr. Pycke:
 present; reported that John and Tawnya Adams have requested 1215 S. Brady to be rezoned. Mr. O’Connor had previously sent a letter to the Adams’ stating the present use of this property was not consistent with our zoning. The property is currently listed as R1 and the request is to rezone as R3. Mr. Askren made a motion refer this request to the Area Planning Commission for study and recommendation. Mr. Madden seconded, all were in favor and the motion passed.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS 
Insurance report—Mrs. Stoll informed the Council that out of the four agencies that submitted proposals for our property and workman’s comp insurance for the City and the Attica Fire Department, two agencies were overall the most competitive. The proposals were presented to the Board of Works on December 6, 2016. Upon evaluation by the board, the firm of Witkemper Insurance Group was awarded the business. In 2016, the City paid $80,626 for our city package, city workman’s comp and the fire department package. In 2017, we will pay $63,961 with the Witkemper Insurance Group. This amounts to a $16,665 reduction in costs.
Ordinance # 15, 2016, An Ordinance Amended Chapter 8, Article 14, Section 8-155, Division 1. Schedule One Entitled Preferential Streets was brought from the table for discussion. The Ordinance was published in the newspaper prior to the council meeting. Mr. Madden made a motion to read the ordinance for the first time in full. Mrs.Maus seconded and the motion passed. Mr. Madden made a motion to read it a
second time in title only, Mrs. Maus seconded, all were in favor. The intersection where a stop sign may be added is at Main and North Third Street. A discussion then took place about the amount of space that must be marked as no parking from a stop sign. Police Officer Snoeberger remarked that vehicles should not be parked within 20 ft. (1car length) of a stop sign. The topic of angled parking near this intersection has been discussed in the past as being a nuisance. More vehicles can park diagonally and have been parked that way for many years. A motion was made by Mr. Madden to read Ordinance # 15, 2016 for the third time and adopt, Mrs. Maus seconded the motion. Mrs. Stoll performed a roll call for votes, the vote was 4-0, and the motion passed.
NEW BUSINESS
Ordinance #16, 2016 Regulation of Public Use of City Social Media Sites was brought up for consideration. A discussion took place that a city social media page would need to be monitored daily if we decide to begin one.   Mrs. Maus made a motion to read for the ordinance for the first time in full and a second time in title only and table it. Mr. Madden seconded and the motion passed.
Ordinance #17, 2016 An Ordinance adopting the State Board of Accounts Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions as the Internal Control Policy of the City of Attica was presented by Mrs. Stoll. Mr. Askren motioned to read for the first time in full and a second time by title only. Mrs. Maus seconded and the motion passed. Mr. Askren then made a motion to adopt Ordinance # 17, 2016, Mr. Madden seconded. All were in favor and the motion passed.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
A request to subdivide the property at Main and Council was heard by the Area Planning Commission before this council meeting. The Area Planning Commission are allowing the subdivision provided that an easement be included for water and sewer to prevent one property from being landlocked from the city utilities.
Some residents on Suzie Lane have requested the city to consider making the road one side parking only.
Mayor Roderick thanked Mr. Madden and Mr. Craft for attending the flag raising commemorating the 200
th
 anniversary of the state.
Mr. Madden thanked Chief Cole for reducing comp time since last month.
Mayor Roderick reported that the JAG Grant is still pending for the School Resource Officer funding.
ADJOURNMENT
At 6:35 the meeting was adjourned. Next Council meeting will be held Monday January 9, 2017.
Share
Share the city of Attica, Indiana news with your friends and neighbors.
Tweet
Connect
Connect with the city of Attica, Indiana.
Related Posts:
Council Proceedings – March 13, 2017
Board of Works & Safety –   March 21, 2017
Board of Works & Safety –   March 7, 2017
City of Attica Newsletter March 2017
Board of Works & Safety –  February 21, 2017
Latest Updates
Apr
14
Council Proceedings – March 13, 2017
Apr
14
Board of Works & Safety –   March 21, 2017
Apr
14
Board of Works & Safety –   March 7, 2017
View All News
Upcoming Events
May
16
Board of Works Meeting
Jun
6
Board of Works Meeting
View Calendar
Utility Payments
For the convenience of our residents, citizens may pay for city of Attica utility bills through our new online payment portal.
Utility Payments
City Forms
For the convenience of our residents, the city of Attica has made specific forms available online and for download.
View City Forms
Contact Attica
City officials, representatives, administrative staff may be contacted through this website by email and phone.
Contact Attica
Receive Attica News By Email
Email
*
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
City of Attica, Indiana © 2013. All Rights Reserved. 
Home
News & Updates
Contact
Directory
Map
305 E. Main St.

Attica, IN 47918

(765) 762-24767
