Citywide Cleanup 2017
Close
Friday, May 12, 2017
Home
News & Updates
Event Calendar
Attica Map
City Directory
City Contact
City Government
Mayor’s Office
Updates
City Council
Updates
Ordinances & Resolutions
Clerk-Treasurer
Board of Works
Updates
City Court
Departments & Services
Building Services
Updates
Cemetery
Fire Department
Updates
Parks Department
Updates
Police Department
Updates
Street Department
Updates
Business & Community
Residents
Attica Utilities
Utility Payments
Parks & Recreation
Visiting Attica
History of Attica
Cottrell Villiage
Upcoming Events
News & Updates
You are here:
Home
>
Board of Works & Safety – January 3, 2017
Board of Works & Safety – January 3, 2017
Published on
February 23, 2017
under
Board of Works
, 
News
Call to Order
The Board of Works and Safety for the City of Attica met, pursuant to Public Notice, on Tuesday, January 3, 2017, 4:30 P.M. in the City Council Room.
Roll Call
Present were Mayor Roderick and Board Members, Mr. Smart and Mr. Gayler. Also present were City Attorney, Thomas P. O’Connor and Clerk-Treasurer, Susan Stoll.
Approval of Minutes
Upon Motion duly made by Mr. Smart, seconded by Mr. Gayler and adopted, Minutes from the previous Board of Works Meeting for December 20, 2016 were approved as written.
Citizens Petitions
There were no citizen’s petitions to be heard.
Department Head Reports
Ron Jean, Street and Water Supervisor was present with nothing to report.
Police Chief Bob Cole was not present.
Fire Chief, Ed O’Farrell was present and reported they have had 39 runs in December and 268 runs for the year (2016).
Jeff Pyke, the Building Commissioner was present. He has not contacted Mr. Farley yet as a follow-up to the December 20
th
 conversation that took place in the Board of Works meeting.
Unfinished Business
There was none.
New Business
Utility Credits; Mr. Smart made a motion to approve, Mr. Gayler seconded, the motion was passed.
Claims; Mr. Gayler made a motion to approve, Mr. Smart seconded, the motion was passed.
Mr. Smart called to inquire about the properties owned by Jarvis, Bieneman, Attica Hotel LLC, Darling LLC to confirm that they are all scheduled to be sold at the Fountain County Commissioners Sale on Feb. 9 at 10 am. It is confirmed that they are scheduled to go up for sale during that meeting.
Mr. Smart also spoke to a gentleman named John Toomy on the subject of giving tax abatements for new businesses as an incentive.
Mr. Smart will be meeting with Tommy Klekner from Indiana Landmarks on Thursday at 10 AM to talk about the condition of our downtown buildings and to discuss if Mr. Klekner has any ideas about potential buyers/investors for any of the properties which are currently neglected and/or up for sale in the FC Commissioners sale.
Mr. Smart also began to look into blight grants but did not have many details to share at this point in time.
In general, Mr. Smart is wondering what the City might be able to do to give incentives for rehabbing downtown buildings into viable businesses. It is thought that the Council would have to make those types of decisions.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Mr. Smart made a motion to adjourn, Mr. Gayler seconded and the meeting was adjourned at 4:52 pm. The next Board of Works meeting will be held on Tuesday, January 17, 2017 at 4:30 pm.
 
Share
Share the city of Attica, Indiana news with your friends and neighbors.
Tweet
Connect
Connect with the city of Attica, Indiana.
Related Posts:
Council Proceedings – March 13, 2017
Board of Works & Safety –   March 21, 2017
Board of Works & Safety –   March 7, 2017
City of Attica Newsletter March 2017
Board of Works & Safety –  February 21, 2017
Latest Updates
Apr
14
Council Proceedings – March 13, 2017
Apr
14
Board of Works & Safety –   March 21, 2017
Apr
14
Board of Works & Safety –   March 7, 2017
View All News
Upcoming Events
May
16
Board of Works Meeting
Jun
6
Board of Works Meeting
View Calendar
Utility Payments
For the convenience of our residents, citizens may pay for city of Attica utility bills through our new online payment portal.
Utility Payments
City Forms
For the convenience of our residents, the city of Attica has made specific forms available online and for download.
View City Forms
Contact Attica
City officials, representatives, administrative staff may be contacted through this website by email and phone.
Contact Attica
Receive Attica News By Email
Email
*
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
City of Attica, Indiana © 2013. All Rights Reserved. 
Home
News & Updates
Contact
Directory
Map
305 E. Main St.

Attica, IN 47918

(765) 762-24767
