Fort Wayne
City Utilities
News You Can Use

                     Protect Yourself From Sewer Backups

Wherever a sewer system exists, so does the potential for a sewer overflow
or a sewer backup.  Many sewage backups into private property happen when
sewer lines become blocked by tree roots or cooking grease.  A break in a
sewer line or an accumulation of debris from a crack in a pipe may also
cause a sewer backup.  Blockages and breaks can occur in the public portion
of the sewer line or in your private building sewer.  Public sewers are
typically located in a street, easement, or public right of way.  The
private portion of the sewer line is everything between the public line and
your building.

If you have a sewer backup, the first thing you should do is call Fort
Wayne’s Water Pollution Control Maintenance Department at (260)427-1255 or
call the One Call to City Hall service center at 3-1-1.  City crews will
visit your location to determine if the problem causing the backup is in
the public sewer line.  If the blockage or break is in the public sewer,
City Utilities will fix the problem.  City employees are not able to clean
your basement or pump sewage out of a private property.

The City will fix problems with the public sewer, but YOU – as a property
owner – are responsible for your plumbing.  If City Utilities determines
that the problem causing your sewer to backup is located in your private
building sewer that connects your building to the public sewer, you are
responsible for determining the nature of the problem and getting it fixed.
 City Utilities employees are not able to remove a blockage in your private
line or make private plumbing repairs.

To prevent sewer backups, consider having a backup prevention device.  An
backup protection device -- often called a backflow preventer -- can
prevent sewage from backing up into your home or business.  Some of these
devices can reroute the backup to the outside of your building.  Better to
have the sewage spill in the yard than in the basement. Backflow devices
are available from plumbing suppliers.  City Utilities recommends having a
backflow device installed by a plumber because the elevation and location
of the device can be crucial for proper operation.  Also, make sure that
the device is accessible and follow recommendations for regular maintenance
for most effective operation.
