LAW ENFORCEMENT CONSOLIDATION COMMITTEE
DATE:

August 23, 2006

CALLED TO ORDER:

4:36 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

4:46 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Lonnell Conley, Chairman
Ron Gibson
Dane Mahern
Lynn McWhirter
William Oliver
Joanne Sanders
Lincoln Plowman

ABSENT MEMBERS
Marilyn Pfisterer

AGENDA
Update on Law Enforcement Consolidation Process

LAW ENFORCEMENT CONSOLIDATION COMMITTEE
The Law Enforcement Consolidation Committee of the City-County Council met on
Wednesday, August 23, 2006. Chairman Lonnell Conley called the meeting to order at
4:36 p.m. with the following members present: Ron Gibson, Dane Mahern, Lynn
McWhirter, William Oliver and Joanne Sanders. Lincoln Plowman arrived shortly
thereafter. Marilyn Pfisterer was absent.
UPDATE ON LAW ENFORCEMENT CONSOLIDATION PROCESS
Penny Davis, Executive Director, Law Enforcement Transition Advisory Committee,
provided members with a handout which showed that the committee has spent
countless hours on the consolidation process. She said that at the Transition
Authority’s July meeting, they passed several recommendations: promotion list
selection, promotion probationary period at six months, community policing functions to
be carried out by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD), computer
applications, radio template, district manpower allocations, special services organization
charts, IDACS (Indiana Data and Communications System) coordinator, Crime
Stoppers, youth services programs, and 18 general orders.
Councillor Gibson asked if Ms. Davis knows which youth services programs were
recommended. Ms. Davis said that she knows that the OK (Our Kids) Program was
recommended, along with several others. Councillor Gibson said that this is the
program he was concerned about.
Ms. Davis said that the August meeting of the Authority passed 45 general orders and
recommendations on the IMPD unit numbers, as well as granting the Office of Finance
and Management (OFM) and the Office of Corporation Counsel (OCC) the authority to
enter into formal negotiations for the Northwest District Headquarters. She said that
Marion County deputies are being fitted now for new uniforms, and OFM is working on
negotiations with all vendors with regards to that issue. Everything seems to be on
track with that part of the consolidation.
Councillor Mahern asked if the promotion list selection includes a breakdown of
participation by minorities and women. Ms. Davis said that the list is not yet completed.
Councillor Mahern asked if the transition group is working to make it as diverse as
possible. Ms. Davis said that they are.
Councillor McWhirter asked if the Councillors receive copies of these recommendations.
Ms. Davis said that she thought Councillor McWhirter was on the list to receive copies
of the recommendations. She said that she knows members of this Committee,
Councillors Sanders and Oliver, receive copies of the recommendations, as well as the
President and Minority Leader. She said that the recommendations go through various
committees before they are passed by the Authority. Councillor McWhirter asked if she
could be added to the list of individuals receiving copies of these recommendations.
Ms. Davis said that she will gladly add her to the list.

Law Enforcement Consolidation Committee
August 23, 2006
Page 2
Councillor Gibson commended Ms. Davis on the fine job she does of coordinating all of
these meetings. He asked if there are any particular challenges that need more
focused attention in the coming three months before the merger takes place. Ms. Davis
said that everything seems to be trending properly, but there are always challenges as
they work out all the logistics. Facilities will be somewhat of a challenge, but half the
battle is knowing what the districts will look like, and that has already been determined.
Councillor Oliver said that one of his biggest concerns has been regarding lessened
manpower on beats and less community policing. He asked if the maps of police beats
are still the same and the manpower in each beat will remain as it is. Ms. Davis said
that the maps are the same, and their projections are that by 2008, all beats will be
covered all the time.
Councillor Mahern asked about the negotiations for the Northwest District Headquarters
and where this may be located. Ms. Davis said that they are looking at a property in the
West 38th Street area. Councillor Mahern said asked if this headquarters is then more
centrally located. Ms. Davis said that this is correct. Councillor Sanders stated that the
proper ordinance for approval of the lease is slated to be introduced at the next Council
meeting to be heard by the Administration and Finance Committee.
Councillor Sanders commended Ms. Davis and all those serving diligently on the
various committees. She said that the amount of information and discussion that is
taking place makes it clear that everything is being uncovered and considered in order
to make the appropriate recommendations. Ms. Davis agreed and stated that this
committee of 43 members has spent countless hours on this process, and their
dedication and commitment continues to be strong.
Chairman Conley asked if during these many hours of discussion, Ms. Davis has seen
comraderie grow among the rank and file toward this transition. Ms. Davis said that she
has definitely seen a change and, while there are still some who keep holding on and
resisting change, the majority seem to be ready for the transition. She added that many
have commented that they wish it were January so that they could just get on with it.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Plowman arrived at 4:45 p.m.]
Chairman Conley thanked Ms. Davis for providing the Committee with valuable
information and keeping them informed. There being no further business, and upon
motion duly made, the meeting was adjourned at 4:46 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Lonnell Conley, Chairman
LC/ag

