TAX INCREMENT FINANCING (TIF) STUDY COMMISSION

DATE:

May 31, 2012

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:11 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:44 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Steve Talley, Chairman
Jeff Cardwell
William Crawford
Richard Hunter, proxy for Billie Breaux
Deron Kintner
Brian Mahern
Ed Mahern
Jeff Spalding

ABSENT MEMBERS

Agenda

INFRASTRUCTURE, BASE TAXING UNITS (PART 2), POLICY CONSIDERATIONS

TAX INCREMENT FINANCING (TIF) STUDY COMMISSION
The Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Study Commission met on Thursday, May 31, 2012.
Chairman Steve Talley called the meeting to order at 6:11 p.m. with the following
members present: Jeff Cardwell, William Crawford, Richard Hunter, proxy for Billie
Breaux, Deron Kintner, Brian Mahern, Ed Mahern, and Jeff Spalding.
Chair Talley asked the Commission members to introduce themselves and indicate
which office or position they represent.
Mike Holt, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Warren Township Schools, stated that
assessed valuation (AV) is a key component of their tax rated funds. He said that there
have been several legislative changes that have impacted their ability to raise funds in
capital projects, especially for infrastructure. Mr. Holt said that in Warren Township, they
have had five consecutive years of AV decline. He said that five years ago, their AV was
$3.2 billion, and now they are at about $2.5 billion. Mr. Holt said that Warren Township
has a growing school district, infrastructure needs, repairs to buildings, maintenance
and providing quality education. Mr. Holt stated that his Capital Projects Fund (CPF) is
decreasing, and they are able to do what they need to do with making the necessary
changes, but they battle AV every year. He said that he firmly believes that there has to
be a balance between economic development and the granting of tax abatements or
TIFs.
Debra Hineline, Chief of Financial and Business Services, Indianapolis Public Schools
(IPS), stated that she agrees with Mr. Holt. She said that Warren Township’s school
corporation does not have any TIFs, where IPS has a ton of them. Ms. Hineline said
that IPS has had six years of declining AV and they are hit heavily with the circuit
breaker. Ms. Hineline said that the first year the circuit breaker impact was $2.8 million
and now for this year, it is estimated to be $14.3 million. She said that when the TIFs
are taking away AV, they are hitting the circuit breaker a lot sooner. Ms. Hineline said
that the way the Department of Local Government Finance (DLGF) calculates their
budget is that the circuit breaker hits all of their funds based on the rate, so they have to
make up on debt service payments out of their CPF funds, which impacts what they can
do in the way of buildings and technology. Ms. Hineline said that she hopes that this
Commission considers the impact of not only the schools, but other units of government
when it comes to the impact on AV.
Councillor Mahern stated that one of the things he has learned that was disturbing was
that the current process does not provide adequate notification to affected local units.
He asked if Ms. Hineline or Mr. Holt re familiar with limitations of notifications to local
units after the fact. Mr. Holt said that he cannot speak to that from a Warren Township
perspective, because they do not have TIF districts. Ms. Hineline said that IPS receives
notification on hearings if there will be possible TIFs in the district. She said that it is not
enough detail, and it would be nice to have the option of being on the committee as a
discussing member, even if they did not get to vote. At least they will be heard as to

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 3
what kind of impact it might mean to them. Councillor Mahern asked if Ms. Hineline and
Mr. Holt has an interest in doing that and not only coming before the Commission, but
going before the Council. Ms. Hineline answered in the affirmative, stating that she
believes that all the school districts need to be a part of the discussion if they are
affected.
Deron Kintner, Executive Director, Indianapolis Bond Bank (Bond Bank), asked how
many meetings they have attended. Ms. Hineline said that usually the notification
comes to the business office and it is forwarded to their facility management. She said
that Steve Young usually does the follow up. Mr. Kintner asked if Ms. Hineline knows if
Mr. Young typically attends those meetings. Ms. Hineline said that she is not sure.
Jeff Spalding, City Controller, Office of Finance and Management (OFM), asked if either
Ms. Hineline or Mr. Holt have done any calculations with regards to what they think is
the impact of TIF capture. Ms. Hineline answered in the negative. Mr. Holt stated that
TIF can be very beneficial, but the creation of the TIF should also include the
opportunity for pass-through AV. He said that in several communities, that has not
happened where the revenue is exceeding the needs of the TIF debt repayment and still
capturing and keeping that additional AV for future project needs. He believes that TIF,
additional of the pass-through, should come back to the local government units to help
supplement the loss of AV that they have occurred.
Councillor Mahern said that it was believed that if a TIF is established, the base
remains, and the other taxing units do not get the increment, but they will be no worse
off in terms of AV than they would the day the TIF was established. He said that they
have learned that is not true and that base has further been eroded by the capture of
increment necessary to shore up what is needed under the TIF. Councillor Mahern
stated that with capital planning and the pass-through, they require some sense of what
the revenue streams will look like. Mr. Holt said that they have to make assumptions
and understand where the AV is. He said that the surprise is down and if they got a
pass-through one year, they could not count on it being ongoing beyond that. Councillor
Mahern asked if Mr. Holt has thoughts of expecting or counting on development to help
with the AV. Mr. Holt said that the initial intention is to benefit an area that has low
assessed valuation, and hoping to capture that in the future. He said that in the IPS
district, there are several TIFs that do not have expiration, and there should be some
end to a TIF district and should not be ongoing.
State Representative William Crawford asked if Mr. Holt and Ms. Hineline can share
with Hope Tribble, Council CFO, in writing an impact analysis of TIF from different
school corporations.
Mike Terry, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), IndyGo, stated that from a TIF
perspective, he thinks that it is a good instrument for economic development. He said
that IndyGo is impacted when there is a freeze, yet the hope would be in the future that
they would reap some of the benefits. Mr. Terry said that when looking at some of the

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 4
benefits related to TIF, as far as an investment in infrastructure, it primarily talks about
streets and sidewalks. He said that the importance of this City’s transit system as
another infrastructure should be invested in part of the community. Mr. Terry said that
looking at the uses of TIF funding; it should be considered to invest in transit.
Councillor Mahern said that IndyGo deals with the whole county, not just providing
service to select areas. He said that this Commission has learned that TIF is a great
tool, but cannot be used to cover the whole county. Councillor Mahern said that when
the talk is about supplementing transit, people will still need to walk to bus stops. He
said that they still need to figure out a way for walkable sidewalks and the like. Mr. Terry
said that having a good pedestrian walkway or greenway is critical. Other amenities in
areas of development need to be transit ready.
Rep. Crawford asked if IndyGo services Lawrence Township. Mr. Terry said that they
partially cover Lawrence, going to Ivy Tech and the Finance Center, but they do not
contribute to their finances in terms of property tax. Rep. Crawford said that IndyGo has
a good system to get people downtown, but difficult to get across town. He asked what
benefit has been achieved from TIFs for crosstown or neighborhoods that are more
isolated. Mr. Terry said that anytime there has been a redevelopment project, those are
individuals that are using IndyGo’s service, increasing their mobility. He said that it has
benefited them in terms of increasing their ridership. Mr. Terry said that anything they
can do to support those developments and make them successful, but he cannot say if
they have benefited directly.
Rep. Crawford said that there has been some publicity about a proposal to expand
IndyGo that will be fueled by an income tax increase. He asked if any portion of that will
be property tax reliant. Mr. Terry said that his understanding is that the funding in
Marion County will remain the same. He said an addition would be whatever the
referendum would be.
Mr. Kintner said that he thought TIFs were going to be a part of financing. Mr. Terry said
that it is probably still in the mix, but may be for a specific mode.
Rep. Crawford said that he did not know that a portion of this was going to be TIF. Mr.
Kintner said he thought he had heard that could be a source.
Councillor Mahern said the when development is done, it puts demand on IndyGo. He
said that IndyGo depends on additional revenue sources. Councillor Mahern asked if it
is fair to say if a TIF puts a demand on the system, and they will not see those dollars
because it will be used for TIF. Mr. Terry said that would play out if they were adding
service, or maxed out their capacity. Mr. Terry said that 20% of their farebox is their
budget. He said that the rest is state, federal and local tax. He said that they are using
their federal dollars for capital and that capital is important to them because they have
aging fleet. Councillor Mahern said that in terms of capital planning, a more reliable
stream is either an overall increase in AV or not capturing that is a positive thing for

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 5
IndyGo because of the dependability of that income. He asked if Mr. Terry could speak
to funding capital needs and revenues associated. Mr. Terry said that if the AV is
increasing and given all of the caps issues, if they have more property tax revenues to
support, they will not have to use as much of the federal money. Councillor Mahern said
that IndyGo is basically in need of capital and they are using what would be funds that
could be used to expand service, but because of the capital needs, they are using
federal dollars for fleet. Mr. Terry answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Kintner asked if TIFs created will bring residents that ride and additional funding to
IndyGo. Mr. Terry answered in the affirmative, stating that the current federal funding
formula is based on miles and ridership, but it is an average and it does have impact.
Mr. Kintner asked if IndyGo has ever had an analysis on how much they are losing due
to TIFs being here or there. Mr. Terry answered in the negative.
Ed Mahern, Chair, Metropolitan Development Commission (MDC), asked when Mr.
Terry became the President of IndyGo. Mr. Terry said that he came in 2003. Mr. Mahern
asked if Mr. Terry could give an indication of the amount of property tax money that has
gone to IndyGo over the last five years. Mr. Terry said that it is more flatlined. He said
that the Council supported an excess levy that they were able to increase their property
taxes. Mr. Terry said that the tax caps have been a challenge. Mr. Mahern asked if
income remains flat and their expenses go up, how will they meet that. Mr. Terry said
they have been able to find a number of efficiencies, by managing the workforce better,
healthcare costs, and managing fuel costs. Mr. Terry said that there is a point where it
comes beyond their challenge, trying to keep service on the street and their fare
structure at the same level.
Councillor Mahern asked is it fair to say that IndyGo’s operating tolerance is given in to
the impact of property tax cap, and that there is not an insignificant impact. Mr. Terry
answered in the affirmative, stating that they are living hand to mouth. They have no
reserves and they have to manage whatever the projected revenues are. Councillor
Mahern asked when Mr. Terry sees development happening, if they anticipate looking
to the future of hopefulness to see development that might be AV collected. Mr. Terry
answered in the affirmative.
Rep. Crawford asked if IndyGo receives a percentage of the states sales tax. Mr. Terry
answered in the negative, stating that because of the Public Mass Transit Fund, which
was a contribution by a percentage of sales tax, it is now line item in budget in the twoyear state budget. Rep. Crawford asked if they still have access to the funds. Mr. Terry
said that they still have distribution, it is not sales tax funded, just a line item.
Mr. Spalding asked what IndyGo’s operating levy versus their cumulative fund amount
is. Fred Armstrong, Financial Consultant, IndyGo, stated that it is six-point nine cents.
He said that one cent goes to the Cumulative Fund, two cents to the Debt Service and
about four cents to their Operating Fund. Mr. Spalding asked if their operating levy is
not a maximum levy controlled dollar amount. Mr. Armstrong said not anymore. He said

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 6
that there are several things to add to it and the growth factor increases the rate which
gives more money. Mr. Spalding said that IndyGo’s operating is levy controlled. Mr.
Spalding asked how much IndyGo is receiving in their Cumulative Capital Fund. Mr.
Armstrong said it was about $3 million.
Councillor Mahern asked if Mr. Terry felt better or worse about their contribution from
the State. Mr. Terry said he would much rather have dedicated funding sources.
Jeff Bennett, Trustee, Warren Township, stated that when used appropriately, TIF is an
excellent financial tool, one of the few that generates economic growth in areas that
might not otherwise be developed. He said that with four TIF districts, two of them
located at Raytheon. Warren Township includes approximately one percent of the total
TIF AV. Mr. Bennett said that well-crafted, successful TIF areas catalyze projects that
would not have otherwise occurred, but for the action of the City. He said that without
TIF, net AV may remain stagnant in once blighted areas, and the City would continue to
have blocks and blocks of vacant lots and neglected housing.
Councillor Mahern said that when development is done, and those developments do not
pay into services that are provided through property taxes. He asked if it is important for
Warren Township that the City’s ability to provide public safety services with limited
public property tax dollars and other funding sources. Mr. Bennett said absolutely, with
the issue of the circuit breaker as it was TIF. He said that when he looks at development
in Warren Township, the first thing he thinks about is new jobs. Mr. Bennett said that
would ultimately impact their budget more favorably, because their primary source of
funding is County Option Income Tax (COIT).
Rep. Crawford asked if the Raytheon is in Warren Township Civil. Mr. Bennett said that
is correct. Rep. Crawford asked if Windsor Park Village is still a disaster area. Mr.
Bennett said that Windsor Park was the victim of part of a massive mortgage fraud
scheme, and half of the neighborhood remains empty. Rep. Crawford asked what has
been the benefit of TIF in that particular neighborhood. Mr. Bennett said that he cannot
say that TIF had any impact on that neighborhood. He said that it has benefited the
Raytheon property.
Lori Miser, Director Department of Public Works (DPW), reviewed a Powerpoint
presentation in detail, which is attached as Exhibit A. Ms. Miser said that DPW’s four
main areas are Policy and Planning, Engineering, Operations and Fleet Services. She
said that the deteriorating infrastructure is a significant local and national issue. DPW is
also faced with adequately maintaining and replacing their fleet, recycling solid waste,
park maintenance, and forestry management, all with a declining revenue. Ms. Miser
said that in 2010, DPW’s overall infrastructure need was almost $2 billion. She said that
in 2011, they spent $174 million and is on track to spend around $137 million in 2012.
Ms. Miser said that even with that amount of spending, their remaining needs continues
to grow and will be in the range of $1.7 billion going forward.

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 7
Ms. Miser said that historically, they have used funds from the Stormwater Utility Fund
and Traditional Transportation Fund to address infrastructure needs. She said that in
2009 and 2012, those traditional sources were a bit higher thanks to the stimulus
funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Ms Miser said that when
the RebuildIndy funds are depleted in 2015, there will be a dramatic decline in revenue.
They are already working on creative ways to increase their funding for infrastructure
needs. She said that without any additional resources, DPW will only have less than
$50 million a year to spend on capital projects.
Ms. Miser said that on average, resurfacing a road can cost about $156,000 per lane
mile. She said that if they wanted to do curbs and sidewalks, it is $140 per linear foot,
with existing sidewalks on both sides of the street. Ms. Miser said that traffic signals are
about $100,000 per intersection.
Councillor Mahern asked that, with regards to curbs and sidewalks, it is referenced at
$140 per linear feet. He asked if that is standard width. Larry Jones, Deputy Director of
Transportation Engineering, DPW, said that it is an approximation, based on a five-foot
sidewalk on both sides of the street.
Ms. Miser said that DPW has used very little TIF funds. She said that they do a lot of
work in TIF districts with other types of money. Ms. Miser said that their use of TIF
money is about $16 million, and the most was in 2011 for Georgia Street. In 2009, $5.3
million was used in the United Northwest Area (UNWA) and the Dow Elanco TIF.
Councillor Mahern asked if the City has always been falling behind with infrastructure.
Mr. Jones said that they have not caught up. He said that DPW estimated to maintain
their current status, they should be investing about $163 million every year, and that is
based on the inventory they had at the time. Mr. Jones said that they have only reached
that once and that was with the addition of RebuildIndy funds. Councillor Mahern asked
if there have always been parts of the City that were neglected. Mr. Jones said that
there was no way that DPW could serve the needs of the entire county based on the
funding structure.
Mr. Kintner asked at one point did it get so overwhelming and if there was ever a time
where the City did not have any infrastructure deficit. Mr. Jones said that he does not
know if they were as knowledgeable at the time. He said that DPW has been reducing
their budgets almost every year in the last 15 years, which gives them less money to
devote to capital.
Mr. Spalding asked if the $163 million is across all categories of infrastructure. Mr.
Jones said it is just for transportation.
Councillor Mahern asked, in terms of bonding or borrowing, what role acquiring of debt
has on the kind of infrastructure to reduce maintenance costs. Ms. Miser said that these
are revenue bonds that have been acquired over the years, by currently paying on

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 8
those. She said that DPW is reluctant to do any more of those because the gas tax is
declining and that is their only source of revenue. If they bond against that, DPW will be
paying for it for the next 20 years and will not have enough funds to maintain what they
have.
Councillor Mahern asked if it is true that at one point, the City took on the responsibility
to maintain the roads for a single payment. Ms. Miser said that was done back in the
early 1990s, and it was a relinquishment deal. The value of that infrastructure was
determined and the State gave the City a lump sum payment to take over those pieces
inside I-465. Councillor Mahern asked if that helps explain why the need seems to be
greater. Mr. Jones said from a capital expense, yes because DPW is responsible for the
roadways within I-465, and it is also an operational impact because they now have to
plow when it snows.
Rep. Crawford said that some funds were used for infrastructure in the UNWA TIF, and
he thought it was money generated in excess. He said that there was no debt so this
was all increment. Rep. Crawford asked if DPW supplemented those funds or if that
was 100% from the increment on that TIF. Michael Williams, CFO, DPW, said that in
2009, DPW used about $2.5 million of TIF revenues to do the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Street (MLK) corridor. Rep. Crawford asked if there were other TIFs in the County that
has happened to, or if this was isolated. Mr. Williams said that it was relatively isolated.
Councillor Mahern asked if there was an ordinance passed by the Council that placed
an infrastructure obligation on developers of new development. Mr. Jones said that he
does not remember the year it was done, but new developers are now required to put
sidewalks on their perimeter boundaries.
Brad Beaubien, Director, Ball State University, Indianapolis Center, stated that TIFs
have to come from some place. He said that if they do not come from anywhere, then it
is kind of like shooting from the hip. He said that some issues arise when there are TIFs
that are done in a vacuum; there is no form of strategy, policy or vision behind them. Mr.
Beaubien said that without investment in planning activities, it will be realized later that it
was not a good choice.
Mr. Beaubien said that TIFs are one strategy to deal with abandon houses. He said that
TIFs do not solve everything; they are an important tool if they are backed up by longterm public policy, strategy, regulations and vision, and to do that there has to be an
investment made in the people and the capacity of the city to plan.
Councillor Mahern asked if Mr. Beaubien agrees that a TIF is an almost tactical tool
used in a small relative area. Mr. Beaubien said that TIFs are strategic, surgical tools.
He said that the goal is to always increase the tax base. Mr. Beaubien said that he often
finds it disappointing that TIF do not expire. He said that redevelopment is never
cheaper than new development. Mr. Beaubien said that if there is ever any hope of
attracting massive amounts of new development, something has to be done to offset the

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 9
cost differential. He said that TIFs in certain neighborhoods are one way to do that. TIFs
in redevelopment areas have to be done to make it attractive to redevelopment.
Councillor Mahern asked if it makes more sense to redevelop the existing structures
from a cost perspective versus doing brand new housing developments. Mr. Beaubien
said that the problems in the decaying neighborhoods are that the City is not growing as
much as a region, people are being moved around. Mr. Beaubien said that housing
policy is not necessarily a neighborhood or county problem; it is more of a regional
problem in that we are robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Councillor Mahern asked if the City could benefit from a more comprehensive countywide economic development plan. Mr. Beaubien said that he is a firm believer that
communities need to drive their future. He said that there are communities that have
made investments in transit. Mr. Beaubien said that this City has chronically undervalued the public realm in the communities for decades.
Chair Talley stated that a few meetings back, Councillor Mahern asked for an
explanation between TIF bonds and General Obligation (G.O.) bonds. Mr. Kintner
stated that the GO bonds are AAA-rated, and therefore comes with the lowest interest
rate possible. He said that most of the TIF bonds are AA-rated and can vary based on
the TIF district. Mr. Kintner said that the difference between an AA-rated TIF bond and
an AAA-rated GO bond is 20 basis points. He said that one basis point is one onehundredth of a percent, and 20 basis points is point two percent. Mr. Kintner said that
there is an additional cost for the TIF bond and having a reserve fund because interest
is paid on the reserve amount until it is used to make the last debt payment. He said
that it varies depending on the size and the term of the bond. Mr. Kintner said that the
other consideration taken into account is that State Law requires a referendum through
GO bonds and there is a cost associated with that. He said that another consideration is
the risk of a GO downgrade. Mr. Kintner said that the more frequently used GO pledges,
the lower the ratings will be. He said that the City currently has about $200 million in
outstanding GO debt.
Councillor Mahern asked how much extra is borrowed. Mr. Kintner said that it is 10% of
the principal amount. Mr. Mahern asked if the 20 basis points will go up. Mr. Kintner
said that it can go u, because it is a snapshot of the market. He said that right now there
is no difference. Mr. Mahern asked what types of expenses will be paid on a $100
million TIF bond. Mr. Kintner said that it is used to pay legal fees to financial advisors
and investment bankers.
Mr. Hunter asked who holds the reserve amount. Mr. Kintner said it is held by the
trustee who is a representative of the bond holder. Mr. Hunter asked if they reinvest
those funds and if the interest goes back to the project or if they keep it. Mr. Kintner
answered that it goes back to the issuer. Mr. Hunter asked at the end of the project, if
the $10 million goes back into the TIF fund. Mr. Kintner said that it would go back into
the Debt Service Fund to pay the debt payments.

Tax Increment Financing Study Commission
May 31, 2012
Page 10
Councillor Mahern said that the reserve funds are set aside for interest payments. Mr.
Kintner answered in the affirmative. He said that when paying bond holders, they would
have to be paid from somewhere. It is not an additional expense because it is already
there. He said that the cost is the interest that is paid on the capitalized interest.
Councillor Mahern asked that when doing interest rates according to TIF, that are
attached to an already existing and productive TIF, if it is far less risky than establishing
a new one. Mr. Kintner said generally yes.
Public Testimony
Pat Andrews, citizen, stated that she wished that there was an organization that could
have been called on to speak for the taxpaying public outside the government. Ms.
Andrews said that the overriding purpose of a TIF is to give the executive of a city a
fund that can be established, so that money can be put in toward businesses who seem
to benefit more than the residents. She asked that if a TIF had to be sold in a
referendum, what kind of real promises are to be made. Ms. Andrews said that she lives
in a TIF affected area and she feels the effect of a poorly thought out impact from the
TIF. The homeowners in Decatur Township have to cover the cost of the schools. Ms.
Andrews stated that TIFs do not always work well for everybody, and giving a false
impression that this type of economic development is going to benefit everyone is
wrong.
Leif Hinterberder, citizen, stated that this City needs to get back to the basics of what
has already worked. He said that this City needs to have actions congruent to what
everyone has been saying for 30 years. This City needs TIF, a new strategic way, and
the four or five economic development areas to be turn-keyed. He said that this City
needs the center impact projects and they need to have sustainable solutions that will
leverage the private equity to come back in and leverage other private equity to create
other successes.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:44 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

________________________
Steve Talley, Chairman
ST/lw

