ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE

DATE:

October 26, 2010

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:31 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

6:20 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Marilyn Pfisterer
Bob Cockrum
Susie Day
Maggie Lewis
Barbara Malone
Jackie Nytes

ABSENT MEMBERS
Joanne Sanders

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 273, 2010 - reappoints Sue Tempero to the Equal Opportunity
Advisory Board
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 274, 2010 - reappoints Landrum Shields to the Equal Opportunity
Advisory Board
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 247, 2010 - approves the issuance of special taxing district bonds of
the Redevelopment District in an amount not to exceed $45,000,000 to refund
Redevelopment District Tax Increment Revenue Bonds of 1991 (Harding Street Project)
and fund related costs
“Do Pass”
Vote: 4-2

ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
The Administration and Finance Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday,
October 26, 2010. Chairwoman Marilyn Pfisterer called the meeting to order at 5:31
p.m. with the following members present: Bob Cockrum, Susie Day, Barbara Malone,
and Jackie Nytes. Maggie Lewis arrived shortly thereafter. Joanne Sanders was absent.
James Steele, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and Robert Elrod, General Counsel were
also present.
PROPOSAL NO. 273, 2010 - reappoints Sue Tempero to the Equal Opportunity
Advisory Board
Sue Tempero said that it has been a great experience serving on the Equal Opportunity
Board for the last three years. She said that she has had experience in human
resources for over 20 years, and during that time she served on the Human Rights
Commission and was also the chair of that committee. She said that she has lived in
Indianapolis for 12 years and has been involved in various civic organizations. Ms.
Tempero said that when she was appointed to the Equal Opportunity Advisory Board,
they were going through a transition of the administration and did not meet for months.
Within the last two years, the board has become much more effective. She said that the
staff has been more responsive and the number of case backlogs has significantly been
reduced. Ms. Tempero referred to the Contract Compliance Committee and said that
there are more businesses that want to become certified, which is very good for the
City. She said that she welcomes the opportunity to serve on the Equal Opportunity
Board for another three years.
Councillor Cockrum asked if Ms. Tempero has met the attendance requirements to be
on this board. Ms Tempero answered in the affirmative.
[Clerks note: Councillor Lewis arrived at 5:33 pm.]
Councillor Malone asked if Ms. Tempero has ever been involved in any type of
mediation. Ms. Tempero answered in the negative.
Chairwoman Pfisterer asked if Ms. Tempero has had to deal with contract compliance
dealing with ex-offenders and employment. Ms. Tempero answered in the negative.
She said that one of the challenges that they have with contract compliance is that the
regulations for the State are different from the regulations for the City. She said that
there are a lot of people that come and file appeals because they have been certified by
the State and not by the City.
Councillor Day moved, seconded by Councillor Malone, to send Proposal No. 273, 2010
to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 60.

Administration and Finance Committee
October 26, 2010
Page 2
Ms. Tempero said that one of the boards concerns has to do with receiving
identification. Chairwoman Pfisterer said that she will check into the problem.
PROPOSAL NO. 274, 2010 - reappoints Landrum Shields to the Equal Opportunity
Advisory Board
Mr. Landrum Shields said that he is Pastor of Covenant Community Church, and has
had the privilege of being appointed by former Councillor Rozelle Boyd. He said that
the Equal Opportunity Advisory Board is the second public agency that he has served
on. He said that he was also president of the School Board in 1968, and has been very
active in the communities.
Councillor Cockrum asked if Mr. Shields has met the attendance requirements. Mr.
Shield answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes asked if Mr. Shields feels that there is progress being made with the
Equal Opportunity Advisory Board. Mr. Shields said that it is very difficult to get
documentation on certain situations, but he feels better about the progress that they
have made. Councillor Nytes asked if there is any type of in-service training. Mr.
Shields said that Attorney Russell carries them through a sort of written question and
answer process, which is considered the training. However, when on this type of board
the leadership strength of the chair person of the board is what matters. Mr. Landrum
said that he is known to ask a lot of questions and in several instances, he has spoken
up about being a registered parliamentarian and how things that were occurring were a
little disturbing.
Councillor Nytes asked if the members of the board would benefit from in-service
training. Mr. Landrum answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes moved, seconded by Councillor Malone, to send Proposal No. 274,
2010 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a
vote of 6-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 247, 2010 - approves the issuance of special taxing district bonds of
the Redevelopment District in an amount not to exceed $45,000,000 to refund
Redevelopment District Tax Increment Revenue Bonds of 1991 (Harding Street Project)
and fund related costs.
Deron Kintner, Executive Director of the Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond
Bank, and Dario Requiz, Project Manager, explained the Harding Street Refunding
Bonds presentation, which is attached as Exhibit A. Some key points are:
On April 24, 1991, bonds were issued in the amount of $35,451,123 to fund
infrastructure improvements in the Harding Street Allocation Area.

Administration and Finance Committee
October 26, 2010
Page 3
The taxpayer agreement states that Eli Lily and Company will provide funds if the
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) revenues of the Harding Street Allocation Area
were insufficient to pay the debt service.
The current debt structure reflects another requirement of funding from Lily in the
amount of $1,183,941 for 2011.
On June 28, 2001, bonds were issued in the amount of $27,170,000 to refund a
portion of the 1991 bonds due to a lower interest rate. The City used the savings
generated from that refunding to pay down a portion of the Lily obligation.
The key benefit of the refunding bonds is a savings of $4.2 million due to lower
interested rates on 1991 and 2001 Bonds.
Mr. Kintner said this proposal deals with a refunding of obligations at the Harding Street
TIF area. The obligations are held by both bond holders and are owed to Eli Lily and
Company.
Councillor Nytes asked if the Lily property received the tax abatement. Mr. Kintner
answered in the affirmative. He said that Lily owns about 75% of the land. Councillor
Nytes asked if there were reassessments or appeals on the Lily property. Mr. Kintner
answered in the affirmative. He said that there were appeals starting in 2007, and they
are now settled. He said the appeals to-date does not impact the revenue collected, but
they will in the future.
James Steele said that the appeals for 2007 through 2010 were resolved, and Lily will
be due a refund because they paid the taxes as if there were no appeal. Councillor
Nytes asked if the situation will get worse. Mr. Steele said once the appeal is settled,
then there will be an adjustment to the assessed valuation, but the projections made for
the future assessed valuation are extremely conservative.
Councillor Cockrum asked if the taxpayer agreement states that even though Lily paid
the short fall, they would still receive reimbursement from the City. Mr. Kintner
answered in the affirmative. He said whatever the interest is on the bond that Lily is
required to make a payment on, is the amount that carries on the reimbursement.
Chairwoman Pfisterer asked if the annual TIF revenue of $4.8 million includes the tax
abatement. Mr. Kintner answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes referred to page six of Exhibit A, and asked if Lily will be completely
out of the transition if the City pays them the entire $14 million. Mr. Kintner answered
in the affirmative. He said that they also want out of this transaction. Councillor Nytes,
referring to page 8 of the presentation, asked if Lily is paid off, to what the reduced
interest rate of 4% would be applied. Mr. Kintner said that the $14 million that will be
paid to Lily will be borrowed from a bond holder, and the interest rate for payment to the
bond holder will be 4%.

Administration and Finance Committee
October 26, 2010
Page 4
Councillor Malone asked what the interest rate is in the tax agreement. Mr. Kintner said
that it does not give a specific number; it states that the interest rate would accrue at the
same interest as the bonds that are being paid on. He said that the 1991 bond issue
contained different structures within the bond. Councillor Malone asked if the blended
rate is specific for the 1991 bonds or if the blended rate is for both the 1991 and 2001
bonds. Mr. Kintner said that the bended rate is only for 1991. He said that in 2001, the
refunding was only at the bond bank level, so the taxpayer agreement is on the City
bonds, which are all 1991 bonds.
Chairwoman Pfisterer asked if the City will save money by paying off the obligation.
Mr. Kintner answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes asked if there is any other debt against this TIF. Mr. Kintner answered
in the negative.
Mr. Steele said that he had many issues with this refunding, but after reviewing what
happened in the early years, he was concerned that during those years there was an
increment because Lily had successfully appealed all the assessed values, drove the
cost down, paid the difference, and then earned interest on that. But that was not the
case. He said that the first appeal was in 2007, and that is when things started to
change with the market values and the City fell behind in property tax billings. Mr.
Steele said the other big issue was in 2009, when the school General Fund tax rates,
the welfare tax rates and police and fire pension tax rates came out causing tax rates to
go down one-third of the rate. He said when entering into these types of financing, seek
a firm that knows how provide better projections. He said that this is a good opportunity
to do the refund based on the current interest rates. He said that his recommendation is
to approve the ordinance.
Councillor Malone asked how integral this proposal is to the North of South project. Mr.
Kintner said that the North of South development has no bearing on whether this
proposal passes or fails. He said that it does increase the likelihood of it from a
feasibility standpoint. Councillor Malone asked if the use of the $14 million by Lily is
completely their choice. Mr. Kintner answered in the affirmative. He said that if they
use these funds for an economic development project, it would allow the City to do it on
a tax-exempt basis.
Councillor Nytes asked if the City issues these funds as tax exempt, if Lily will have to
use the fund for something in economic development. Mr. Kintner said that is the
easiest solution, but if Lilly does not use the fund for economic development, then it
would just take a more thorough analysis. Councillor Nytes asked if the City will require
any kind of new taxpayer agreement for their use of the funds. Mr. Kintner said that if
the North of South development is approved, then they would agree include a new
taxpayer agreement. If not, then they would probably continue the analysis and see if
they could get there on a tax-exempt basis. Councillor Nytes asked if Lily could be

Administration and Finance Committee
October 26, 2010
Page 5
asked to invest the funding into other types of economic development. Mr. Kintner said
that they could be asked.
Councillor Cockrum moved, seconded by Councillor Nytes, to send Proposal No. 247,
2010 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a
vote of 4-2, with Councillors Lewis and Malone casting the negative votes.
Councillor Nytes asked if there are any other types of agreements like this taxpayer
agreement. Mr. Kintner said that this is the only transaction that he is aware of. He
said that part of the reason is because the City was so concentrated on one taxpayer.
Councillor Nytes said that part of her reason for wanting to get this transaction
refinanced is not only for the favorable interest rates, but also to get rid of this particular
deal. She said that this transaction was more favorable for Lily.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 6:20 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

________________________________
Marilyn Pfisterer, Chairwoman

MP/rjp

