METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

June 12, 2006

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:35 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

6:15 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

Attending Members
Dane Mahern, Chairman
Ron Gibson
Angela Mansfield
Jackie Nytes
Marilyn Pfisterer
Steve Talley

Absent Members
Scott Keller
Lance Langsford
Mike Speedy

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 176, 2006 - reappoints Michael Rinebold to the Indianapolis Housing
Agency Board
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 325, 2006 - designates and establishes a municipal riverfront
development project area pursuant to IC 7.1-3-20 to encourage new restaurant proprietors
to invest in the central canal area
“Do Pass”
Vote: 4-2

METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Metropolitan Development Committee of the City-County Council met on Monday,
June 12, 2006. Chair Dane Mahern called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m. with the
following members present: Ron Gibson, Angela Mansfield, Jackie Nytes, Marilyn
Pfisterer, and Steve Talley. Absent were Scott Keller, Lance Langsford and Mike
Speedy.
PROPOSAL NO. 176, 2006 -reappoints Michael Rinebold to the Indianapolis Housing
Agency Board
Mr. Rinebold said he was appointed to the board as a replacement and has been serving
since 2004. He said he has put a lot of time into the board and is pleased with the
anticipated score the board will receive. Mr. Rinebold stated that he serves as the chair of
the board’s financial committee and they review budgets monthly.
Councillor Mansfield asked where the cost-cutting measures are seen. Mr. Rinebold said
all departments have made significant cuts by not filling staff positions.
Councillor Gibson asked for an update on the housing policing for the agency. Mr.
Rinebold said the police force that was with the agency left in 2004 and what remains is
the office of Special Investigations, which handles all the fraud cases. He said this office
operates on grants and unfortunately the money that has been available is no longer. He
said there are two employees handling fraud cases. Councillor Gibson asked that this
issue be kept on the table because it is important to have policing for the agency to reduce
fraud and improve housing. Mr. Rinebold said the agency is working to collaborate with
the Indianapolis Police Department (IPD) to respond to calls made, but additional help is
needed.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if the fraud unit could be self-funded. Mr. Rinebold said the
office is funded by money recovered from fraud; unfortunately, it is very difficult to
recover this money. Councillor Mansfield said most of the time whoever has done the
fraud has usually spent the money; therefore, the investigation office for the most part
acts like a deterrent.
Councillor Nytes asked about Mr. Rinebold’s attendance record. Mr. Rinebold stated
that he has attended 15 out of the 18 board meetings.
Councillor Gibson moved, seconded by Councillor Mansfield, to send Proposal No. 176,
2006 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote
of 6-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 325, 2006 - designates and establishes a municipal riverfront
development project area pursuant to IC 7.1-3-20 to encourage new restaurant proprietors
to invest in the central canal area

Metropolitan Development Committee
June 12, 2006
Page 3
Margaret Banning, Administrator for the Department of Metropolitan Development
(DMD), said the designation is along a portion of the Canal and White River State Park
cultural district. She said this law was passed to create an incentive for retail
development along riverfront areas. She said in the past a restaurant would only need a
letter from the Mayor and evidence of city/state expenditures in the area, but now the area
requires a previous designation of a revitalization district. Ms. Banning said one of the
top amenities that visitors would like to see the most is cafés and restaurants along the
canal. She said some disadvantages that property owners and potential retail developers
have cited are: the perceived lack of parking, lack of street level visibility, and access for
deliveries. She said this designation and the ability to obtain an off quota license will
help counter some of these disadvantages. Ms. Banning said retail development is also
an economic development and work force development strategy.
Councillor Talley stated that at this time he is not in support of the proposal because of
the four million dollars of city funds and fifteen million dollars of state funds being used.
He also stated his concern that the canal will no longer be family friendly with this
proposal and there are no places to park. Ms. Banning said the money spent was from a
revenue bond that was generated; therefore, no money came out of the General Fund.
She said full service restaurants are the only ones eligible for this proposal. Ms. Banning
said the problem with parking in this area is people just do not know where to park and
businesses will help to identify parking.
Councillor Gibson said he is excited about this proposal because it is truly in the best
interest of the city. He said this proposal will help in economic development, enhance
living in the city, and the quality of life for those who want to live downtown.
Councillor Nytes asked why the designation is not the length of the canal. Ms. Banning
said one of the criteria was the area had to formally be designated as a redevelopment
area and this area stopped at New York Street.
Councillor Pfisterer expressed her concern for the lack of space to develop parking
garages and for restaurants having outside seating, which will inhibit walking space. She
asked if there are going to be variations in the liquor licenses these restaurants receive.
Ms. Banning said the eligibility to apply for a liquor license does not distinguish between
the licenses.
Councillor Gibson asked the committee to not get hung up on the parking issue, because
the city has various means of transportation and many parking spaces downtown. He
said this project is no different than Fountain Square and Broad Ripple; people still have
to interact with others.
Councillor Mansfield said she encourages full service restaurants to draw people into the
cultural district.

Metropolitan Development Committee
June 12, 2006
Page 4
Chair Mahern said he is in support of this proposal, because it will help provide job
opportunities in his district. He said the Council needs to look forward in regards to the
benefit this will have on the expansion of the Convention Center and mass transit.
Ms. Banning clarified that this proposal is not going to create a rush. She said it still is
going to be a challenge to develop retail along the canal. She said it will be more café
oriented businesses rather than a big restaurant, and the city sill has control.
Councillor Mansfield moved, seconded by Councillor Gibson, to send Proposal No. 325,
2006 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote
of 4-2. With Councillors Pfisterer and Talley casting the negative votes.
CONCLUSION
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Metropolitan
Development Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 6:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Dane Mahern, Chair
Metropolitan Development Committee
DM/as

Metropolitan Development Committee
June 12, 2006
Page 5

Metropolitan Development Committee
June 12, 2006
Page 6

