PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
DATE:

February 21, 2008

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:30 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

6:03 p.m.
ATTENDANCE
ABSENT MEMBERS

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Benjamin Hunter, Chairman
Ginny Cain
Dane Mahern
Angela Mansfield
Janice McHenry
Mary Moriarty Adams
Cherrish Pryor
Christine Scales
Mike Speedy
AGENDA

PROPOSAL NO. 36, 2008- appoints Harrison R. Smith to the Board of Public Works
“Do Pass”
Vote 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 69, 2008 - approves an appropriation of $3,380,000 in the 2008 Budget of the
Department of Public Works (Transportation General Fund) to fund the resurfacing design,
inspection and construction of the streets used in 2007 as local detour routes for the Super 70
project, financed by reimbursements from the Indiana Department of Transportation
“Do Pass”
Vote 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 70, 2008-approves an appropriation of $9,000,000 in the 2008 Budget of the
Department of Public Works (Transportation General Fund) to fund the construction of Phases 2
and 3 and the related project design costs for future phases of the downtown Cultural Trail,
funded by a grant from the Central Indiana Community Foundation
“Do Pass”
Vote 9-0

PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
The Public Works Committee of the City-County Council met on Thursday, February 21, 2008.
Chair Benjamin Hunter called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. with the following members
present: Ginny Cain, Dane Mahern, Janice McHenry, Mary Moriarty Adams, Cherrish Pryor,
Christine Scales, and Mike Speedy. Angela Mansfield arrived shortly thereafter.
PROPOSAL NO. 36, 2008 – appoints Harrison R. Smith to the Board of Public Works
Councillor Scales addressed Chairman Hunter with an amendment to strike the name “Harrison
Smith” everywhere it appears (including the digest) and replace it with the name “Robert
Parrin.”
Councillor Scales moved, seconded by Councillor Speedy, to amend Proposal No. 36, 2008, as
shown on Exhibit A. The motion carried by a vote of 8-0.
Chair Hunter asked if Mr. Parrin was in attendance. Mr. Parrin was not present. Chair Hunter
said they would move the proposal to the end of the agenda to allow Mr. Parrin time to arrive.
PROPOSAL NO. 69, 2008 - approves an appropriation of $3,380,000 in the 2008 Budget of the
Department of Public Works (Transportation General Fund) to fund the resurfacing design,
inspection and construction of the streets used in 2007 as local detour routes for the Super 70
project, financed by reimbursements from the Indiana Department of Transportation
Mr. Dave Cleaver, Assistant Administrator of Capital Improvement Financing for Department of
Public Works (DPW), said that this proposal requests that $3,380,000 from the Transportation
General Fund balance be reimbursed by monies from the Indiana Department of Transportation
(INDOT). He said that last year during the Super 70 project, the State agreed to enter into an
agreement with the city for damages to local streets as a result of detour routes created by the
work performed on the interstate. This year they are actually doing the work, and they need the
money appropriated in their budget. Money was not appropriated in their 2008 budget. He said
at the time, they were requested to come back before the council committee and seek to put that
money back into their budget. This action has no impact on the Transportation General Fund
balance, since it will be reimbursed with dollar amounts that will be spent from this
appropriation. Mr. Cleaver introduced Larry Jones, who is over the Transportation section in the
Engineering division, and asked if there any questions about the streets that were on the list.
Councillor Moriarty-Adams asked what streets were going to be covered. Mr. Jones distributed a
handout (attached as Exhibit B), and said that part of the agreement with INDOT, DPW, and the
City of Indianapolis includes a specific set of street segments and estimated costs to do repairs on
those segments. He said this negotiated agreement with INDOT was based on anticipated
damage of the streets which would receive the most traffic and could incur the most damage. Mr.
Jones said these street segments were agreed upon in March 2007, and it was agreed they would
reimburse DPW for expenses due to resurfacing, all except Post Road, because it is a concrete
street which will receive a concrete joint.

Members of the Public Works Committee
February 21, 2008
Page 2

Councillor Speedy asked when they anticipate the state reimbursing the city for this money.
Mr. Cleaver said they will be reimbursed after the work has been performed. He said they have
to do the work up front, and the first project is in design right now. The first project is pending,
going out to bid, and waiting on Council action to approve or deny. He said they invoice one at a
time and the project is completed based on the agreement.
Councillor Speedy asked if the State had the money already budgeted, or if they have to seek
certain appropriations as well. Mr. Cleaver said that in the past they have issued purchase orders
for a dollar amount to reimburse DPW. He can find out for sure, but that is the typical way. He
said just like the city, they would have issued a purchase order to a particular vendor if they had
awarded a contract.
Councillor Speedy asked if the state paid pretty promptly. Mr. Cleaver said they are still in
negotiations from the first round of reimbursements on this particular project. He said as part of
this agreement, last year they purchased speed indicator signs for school zones, used a police
helicopter for traffic observation, DPW operations group patched potholes, and extra safety
personnel were put on the streets for handling traffic. He said there have been three invoices
submitted, and the state is still reviewing those invoices. Two invoices were submitted in 2007,
and a revised one was submitted in 2008. Currently the reimbursement amount is approximately
$142,000.
Councillor Pryor asked if this was going to be one bid or separate bids for each street. Mr. Jones
said that currently, design and inspection is under contract. He said they may not be blended
with one program; they are bid out in two packages and maybe three. Councillor Pryor
confirmed again that there could be more than one company to do all of these projects. Mr.
Jones replied in the affirmative.
Councillor Pryor asked about the other streets that may be impacted in that area that are not
listed on Attachment A, and if these streets will be worked on. She asked if there is any type of
consideration for the streets that have not been listed. Mr. Jones said they have their 2008 reservicing program, which is county wide, and there are some streets in that general area that are
selected to be a part of the repairs. He said they are still reviewing that program as far as the
total amount from a funding standpoint. He said the potential may be there to consider other
streets, but they may have to take something off the table. He also said they had planned on
doing a street in that area if it had gotten real bad. But, he said they had already negotiated these
repairs a year ago as to what they thought the condition would be this time this year. He does not
think they have the ability to change these segments or limits, and the only other way they could
do it is with their own funding. Councillor Pryor commented that later on they may have to
approve other streets with the funding they get. Mr. Jones replied this would have to be done
with normal funding.
Councillor Pryor asked when they might be finished with the repairs. She said she realizes they
did not have a start date, but asked when they hope to be finished. Mr. Jones said they hope to
have everything done by Halloween at the latest, but he thinks it may be sooner. He said if they
could get Council approval on these bids and get them under contract, they could start work
immediately, because asphalt plans start up in April.

Members of the Public Works Committee
February 21, 2008
Page 3

Councillor Moriarty Adams said East 16th Street is in pretty bad shape from Ritter Avenue east,
and she was not sure how much of that traffic was re-directed off of Shadeland Avenue or
Emerson Avenue onto 16th Street. She asked if there are any plans for 16th Street in that area.
Mr. Jones said he knows they have it on their list to look at, but he does not know that it is an
issue right now. He said that he will look into it and get back with her.
Councillor Mahern asked since these prjects are separate from the normal list the Councillors
have, and since they have already been discussed with the people on the committee, are they
going to be easier to bid than going through the normal process for 2008, or will there be a
different process for all the different districts. Mr. Cleaver said the only thing different is that
they will bid it in packages for only these streets. He said that there might be five street
segments in one, and four in another. Normally, they have bigger projects, sometimes
$1,000,000 projects all over two or three townships. Mr. Cleaver said they are keeping them
separate to make it easy to reconcile financially.
Councillor McHenry said she noticed that in their bid, these costs were figured a year ago. She
wanted to know since these costs were done a year ago, is it a possibility the cost will be higher
now, and if so, who would pick up the difference. Mr. Jones said they are estimates, and if it
goes higher than the dollar amount, the city would have to cover anything over that. He said that
is the way the agreement reads. They are estimates, and they are fairly comfortable with the
costs, but the market will tell them for sure.
{Clerks Note: Councillor Mansfield arrived at 5:43 p.m.}
Councillor McHenry asked at the time of the estimates, if they knew that it was not going to be
done for another year. Mr. Jones said that was correct. They knew at that time it would be bid
this year.
Chair Hunter asked if East Washington Street from I-70 to Post Road is in included in the first
phase. With this being under INDOT control, does DPW have to do anything with that. Mr.
Jones said outside of I-465 is an INDOT project, and it is not the City’s.
Councillor Moriarty-Adams moved, seconded by Councillor Cain, to send Proposal No. 69, 2008
to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 9-0.
Chair Hunter asked the clerk to add his name to Proposal No. 69, 2008, as well.
PROPOSAL NO. 70, 2008- approves an appropriation of $9,000,000 in the 2008 Budget of the
Department of Public Work (Transportation General Fund) to fund the construction of Phases 2
and 3 and the related project design costs for future phases of the downtown Cultural Trail,
funded by a grant from the Central Indiana Community Foundation
Mr. Cleaver said that Lori Miser, Administrator in the Engineering Department of DPW, is the
designee in the department overseeing this project. He said this proposal is a request to
appropriate $9,000,000 of funds donated to the Central Indiana Community Foundation, and

Members of the Public Works Committee
February 21, 2008
Page 4

provided to the City of Indianapolis through a grant, to provide for ongoing design and
inspection of the cultural trail project. He said the first phase is right outside the window on
Alabama, and is nearing completion. The landscaping should be done by early spring. That
project is winding down, and the next two phases will be going to construction later this spring
or mid summer. He said the funds they are appropriating today will probably be spent over the
next twelve to 24 months, and will be used to match some federal funds that have been
earmarked for downtown projects. He said he could answer any questions on the funding aspect,
and Lori could answer specific questions about the trail project and its impact.
Councillor Scales asked if there is something written into this agreement that if the expenses
exceed what has been granted, would the city be responsible to complete the project. Mr. Cleaver
responded that it has been their consistent commitment since this project started that there would
be minimal contribution by the city. He said that so far, the only city funds that have been
applied to this project were for the resurfacing of Alabama Street last year, in conjunction with
the trail project construction. The city agreed that they should probably resurface the street as a
part of the project and replace parking meters for projects, since the city administers the parking
meter program. Other than that, it is a case by case basis. He said if they find an unknown that
they feel is their problem and creation, then the city may be involved financially. From the
standpoint of paying for any overruns on the construction or any aspect of the project, their
limitation is very clear and it has been from the beginning. He said this project is to use only the
donated funds from the Central Indiana Community Foundation (CICF) donated to the city. It is
appropriated in their budget, and should be spent as matching and direct funds to contractors and
design and inspection firms for the completion of this project. He said they are trying to limit any
funds of any capital improvement that would be dedicated toward this project. He also said to
date they have reserved about $200,000 of actual city funds for this project, which was for the
resurfacing of Alabama Street. Mr. Cleaver said there was some minor cleanup at one location
and a purchase of replacement parking meters, but other than that, they have spent $6.7 million
dollars to date, and of that, $200,000 are city funds.
Councillor Mansfield said that she just wanted to stress for the public that these are private funds
that are going for the cultural trail. She said as someone who travels on Alabama Street, it
desperately needed to be repaved. Councillor Mansfield said that sometimes when the public
sees these appropriations, it is really a formality or technicality that they have to go through
when they really private funds. She wants the public to understand that these are not city funds
going to this type of project, when other streets desperately need repair.
Councillor Mahern asked if they know how many people are going to be involved in the next
two phases. He said Alabama is a straight shot and probably the smallest phase so far, but it took
every bit to get it done in time, and now there is going to be significantly more work being done
in these next two phases next year. Ms. Miser explained that there are two phases. The first
phase will be the northeast corridor that will start at North and Alabama and extend to the
Monon, and that will be bid as one contract. She said the second or third phase is the north
corridor from North and Alabama all the way to Blackford and Indiana at the IUPUI campus (a
map of the boundaries is attached as Exhibit C). She said there will be two separate contracts,
and two contracting firms will be working on that.

Members of the Public Works Committee
February 21, 2008
Page 5

Councillor Scales said that she had the opportunity to attend the storm water drainage
symposium the other night, and they were talking about using some innovating new techniques
for stormwater overflow to provide for bike paths. She asked if the department is familiar with
that, and if they had given that consideration in this project. Ms. Miser said they are doing that
on Alabama Street. She said they are called stormwater planters and they trap extra stormwater.
They provide filtration so that less of the discharge goes into the combined sewer overflows.
They are being used throughout the trail. Councillor Scales asked if they would continue to be
used. Ms. Miser responded in the affirmative.
Chair Hunter said he would just like to echo what Councillor Mansfield stated, that it is
important for the public to understand that these are private funds. This project is great for a city
of this size, and it is great that then are able to raise the funding to do this.
Councillor Speedy moved, seconded by Councillor Mansfield, to send Proposal No. 70, 2008 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 9-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 36, 2008 – appoints Harrison R. Smith to the Board of Public Works
Chair Hunter said the committee members have a brief resume from Mr. Parrin, whose name was
substituted for the original appointee, Harrison Smith. Mr. Parrin is now present and ready for
questioning
Councillor Mansfield said she looked over the resume that was provided, and obviously Mr.
Parrin adds a great deal of benefit to this board. She asked if he or his company provide services
to the City of Indianapolis. Mr. Parrin answered in the negative, and said that they do no
engineering consulting through companies with the city. Councillor Mansfield asked if he
perceived that there would be a conflict of interest. Mr. Parrin replied that he did not.
Councillor Mansfield asked if he could describe a little more about what his company does.
Mr. Parrin said his company provides Engineering and Management services. He said for
example, he does engineering for a company that is in the wastewater treatment business. They
produce oxygenation systems for wastewater. He is the pump consultant for them, and has spent
30 years of his career in the pump business. That is what he is focused on now. He is also
working for the employer from which he retired as an engineering consultant, and that is also
pump business. Councillor Mansfield asked if it is related to the city. Mr. Parrin said that it is
located in Indianapolis, but they do not do business with the City. He said he has no way to do
business with the city through that company.
Councillor Pryor asked if there is anything that he would like to tell the Committee about
himself, other than what is on his resume. Mr. Parrin said when an acquaintance of his, Allen
Kimbel called and mentioned the possibility of serving on the board, because of his engineering
experience, he did not have to think about it very long. He has lived in Indianapolis with his wife
and kids for a total of 20 years. They have raised their family here. He started his engineering
company upon retirement from the pump company. Although he has lived all over the country,
he made the decision to stay in Indianapolis because he loves the city. He said that he could not
think of a finer place to live. Having said that, he now has some time available, he thinks that his

Members of the Public Works Committee
February 21, 2008
Page 6

engineering and management experience will benefit the city. If DPW can benefit from that, that
is what he would like to do.
Councillor Mahern thanked Mr. Parrin for the dedication that it is going to take to be a part of the
board. He said the board takes a lot of work and time. He said that it is one of the most
important committees to the city, because it has a daily affect on people’s lives. Councillor
Mahern also said it is great to see that he is ready, and has the experience to help on the board.
Councillor Mahern moved, seconded by Councillor Speedy, to send Proposal No. 36, 2008 to the
full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 9-0.
James Johnson, Budget Analyst for the City Controller’s Office, said that he has been with the
Office of Finance of Management since May of 2007. He introduced their new employee Jason
Dudich, Deputy Controller for the Budget. Councillor Mansfield said that she worked with Mr.
Dudich at the State Budget Agency a few years ago, and she thinks he is a great addition.
Glen Pratt, citizen, stated that he spent most of his life working with the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency. He said that he was also an Assistant Commissioner at the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM). After retirement, he decided to work with
government on environmental concerns. One of the major problems in this community is raw
sewage flowing through the neighborhoods because of failing septic tanks. He said there is a
septic tank elimination program in place that is moving ahead, and he strongly urged the council
to keep this as a high priority. He said that drainage is also an issue. He said he hopes that with
the new council and the new committee, that they can continue to focus on not only making the
cultural trails nice, but they need to eliminate the sewage trail and bring safe water to the people.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Public Works Committee of
the City-County Council was adjourned at 6:03 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

BH/cj

Benjamin Hunter, Chair
Public Works Committee

