
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

XIII. SUSTAINABILITY AND
CONSERVATION
The City of Richmond will continue to treasure its historical, cultural and natural resources,

including its buildings, artifacts, rivers, wetlands and streams, topography and geology, water
resources, woodlands and urban forestry. The City pledges to preserve and protect these
resources with environmentally sound plans that echo its sustainable development philosophy.
The City of Richmond will continue to recognize the importance of innovative alternative
energy and recycling systems that address appropriate standards within the sustainable
development philosophy.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA |

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

XIII. SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION
A. Introduction
Sustainability Definition

Sustainable development or sustainability involves three broad interacting realms: environmental
sensitivity, economic vitality, and social benefit. Sustainability is a concept that allows a
comfortable way of living by achieving a realistic and achievable balance between the resource
demands of these environmental, economical and social requirements. The environmental,
economic, and social aspects of our current conception of sustainability have roots in core values
common to peoples and cultures around the world. Many religions and traditional cultures have
stressed respect for nature and all of humanity, including future generations. This societal model
requires a sustainable balance between these three aspects to meet both present and future
needs. As the City of Richmond, the Comprehensive Plan Steering Committee and the
stakeholders guided the preparation of the Richmond Comprehensive Plan, the challenge of
balancing economic growth and environmental sustainability, throughout the projected 15 year
life span of the plan, has been paramount in the discussions. Stakeholders and community
participators in the planning process, through the surveys and the U~Plan meetings, have
identified the intrinsic worth of economic development, effective public transit and connectivity,
strong schools and community services, pedestrian and bicycle corridors, parks and recreational
amenities, coordinated parking programs, urban design considerations and conservation
guidelines, to name a few.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 253

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Elements of a "sustainable community" include:
Environmental Sensitivity: including satisfying basic human needs such as clean air and water;
protecting ecosystems and biodiversity; and pollution prevention strategies while preserving and
conserving natural, cultural and historical resources, in addition to allowing for context-sensitive
growth and development of such resources where appropriate. Conservation is the protection,
preservation, management, or restoration of both natural resources such as forests, soil, and
water and municipal resources such as historic preservation of buildings and neighborhoods,
cultural monuments and urban green space.
Economic Viability: including local reinvestment; meaningful employment opportunities; local
business ownership; and job training and education. It is possible for an economy to grow while
using fewer resources, using them more efficiently, and producing less waste. Economic growth
need not be in conflict with social needs or environmental protection. Social equity and a healthy
environment are supported by economic development and support it in turn.
Social Benefit: including quality health services; safe well-lit streets and public spaces; housing
and education; creative expression through the arts; safety from crime and aggression; respect for
public spaces and historic resources; including respect and tolerance for diverse views and
values; a viable non-government sector; equal opportunity to participate in decision-making; and,
access to government and a sense of place and self-worth.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 254

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

B. Goal and Objectives
Goal

The City of Richmond’s future growth will be guided by an overarching philosophy of
sustainability. The long-term health and stability of the community will be quantified by the
well-being of the residents and individuals frequenting the City, the vitality of the economy, and
the healthiness of the environment. The pursuance of this philosophy of sustainability will be
guided by a group of Richmond’s residents brought together expressly for this purpose and
dedicated to this cause.

Objectives
1.

The City of Richmond, through public and private partnering, will work cooperatively to
support and strengthen the neighborhoods and conserve and enhance local character by:
• Planning for appropriate and environmentally sound neighborhood
revitalization and housing rehabilitation
• Revitalizing and creating parks as focal points for economic development and
neighborhood renewal
• Preserving and conserving historic and culturally significant buildings, places
and urban objects

2. The City of Richmond will implement policies to improve and promote a healthier
environment by:
• Protecting and enhancing biodiversity and wildlife
• Protecting the quality and supply of water resources.
• Implementing the proposed aquifer and well head protection districts
• Improving and conserving soil quality
• Reducing the amount of waste by expanding the recycling program
• Developing an urban forestry program
• Employing green building policies
• Striving for zero net increase of greenhouse gas emissions
3. The City of Richmond will promote the re-use of land and buildings in the following
ways:
• Brownfield redevelopment will be promoted and marketed,
• Development will be encouraged and promoted within existing growth centers,
• Urban infill housing developments will be encouraged,
• Existing structures will be improved to accommodate future use
4. The City of Richmond will implement policies to improve and promote the sustainability
and integration of the transport infrastructure by:
• Expanding and developing mass transit and multi-modal transportation systems
to lessen the dependence on the automobile
• Supporting and developing walk-able communities
• Developing bike-trails that will maintain and expand connectivity to existing
byways

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 255

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

5. The City of Richmond will promote sustainable economic development that will
increase the vitality and viability of the city and increase the diversity and viability of the
contiguous two mile fringe economy by:
• Implementing training programs for sustainable business development
• Where appropriate promote new development that will utilize mixed-use
projects and multi-use structures
• Promoting mixed and balanced developments and facilities that meet the needs
of the community
6. The City of Richmond’s growth policy will support long-term sustainable solutions and
promote respect for the city’s history and natural systems and where appropriate “Smart
Growth” principles will be implemented.
7. The City of Richmond will promote social and civic responsibility by :
• Development of community awareness programs

Policies for Sustainability and Sustainable Development

The City of Richmond firmly believes that sustainable development can help shape a better
future for all the citizens of Richmond. It is a practical approach to decision-making that has
tangible, long-term benefits for the health, well-being and prosperity of the entire community.
The objective is to incorporate the principles of sustainability into Richmond’s programs,
policies and operations through:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Leadership: Promote sustainable development through actions, policies and programs.
Accountability: Define and be held accountable for assigned roles in supporting
sustainable development.
Integrated decision-making: Integrate sustainable development into decision-making
rules, processes, and institutions.
Informed decision-making: Provide the necessary knowledge, information and learning
opportunities to support the incorporation of sustainable principles relating to
economic, social and environmental considerations into decision making.
Results-based approach: Take actions to ensure measurable progress towards
sustainable development.
Shared responsibility and cooperation: Work with institutions, agencies, and partners to
achieve shared goals and objectives.
Environmental stewardship and compliance: Meet or exceed federal and state
environmental legislation and implement best practices.
Requirements: Sustainable development is everybody's responsibility. In order to
incorporate sustainable development into Richmond’s policies, all policy makers must
consider economic, social and environmental factors when developing or amending
policies, programs, or operational procedures, guides, standards, agreements, and
contracts.
Strategies: Develop appropriate performance measures for Sustainable Development
commitments and prepare annual reports on progress made on commitments in the
Sustainable Development strategy and demonstrate continual improvement.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 256

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Policies for Sustainability and Sustainable Development Diagram

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 257

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Principles of Smart Growth
Definition

Smart Growth is the term used to describe well-planned, well-managed growth that adds new
homes and creates new jobs, while preserving open space, farmland, and environmental
resources. Smart Growth supports livable neighborhoods with a variety of housing types, price
ranges and multi-modal forms of transportation. Smart Growth is an approach to land-use
planning that targets the State’s resources and funding in ways that enhance the quality of life.
Smart growth is defined by the following 10 principles:
1.

Mix Land Uses
Smart growth supports the integration of mixed land uses into communities as a critical
component of achieving better places to live.

2. Take Advantage of Compact Building Design
Smart growth provides a means for communities to incorporate more compact building
design as an alternative to conventional, land consumptive development.
3. Create Range of Housing Opportunities and Choices
Providing quality housing for people of all income levels is an integral component in any
smart growth strategy.
4. Create Walkable Neighborhoods
Walkable communities are desirable places to live, work, learn, worship and play, and
therefore a key component of smart growth.
5. Foster Distinctive, Attractive Communities with a Strong Sense of Place
Smart growth encourages communities to craft a vision and set standards for
development and construction which respond to community values of architectural
beauty and distinctiveness, as well as expanded choices in housing and transportation.
6. Preserve Open Space, Farmland, Natural Beauty and Critical Environmental Areas
Open space preservation supports smart growth goals by bolstering local economies,
preserving critical environmental areas, improving our communities quality of life, and
guiding new growth into existing communities.
7. Strengthen and Direct Development Towards Existing Communities
Smart growth directs development towards existing communities already served by
infrastructure, seeking to utilize the resources that existing neighborhoods offer, and
conserve open space and irreplaceable natural resources on the urban fringe.
8. Provide a Variety of Transportation Choices
Providing people with more choices in housing, shopping, communities, and
transportation is a key aim of smart growth.
9. Make Development Decisions Predictable, Fair and Cost Effective
For a community to be successful in implementing smart growth, it must be embraced by
the private sector.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 258

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

10. Encourage Community and Stakeholder Collaboration
Growth can create great places to live, work and play if it responds to a community’s
own sense of how and where it wants to grow.

Smart Growth Issues
Smart growth issues can be further researched at the following organizations:

Smart Growth Issues
American Planning Association:
http://www.planning.org/growingsmart/
Growing Smart
Building America
http://www.nbm.org/
Carfree Cities
http://www.carfree.com/
CEOs for Cities
http://www.ceosforcities.org/
Congress for the New Urbanism
http://www.cnu.org/
Environmental Protection Agency:
http://www.epa.gov/smartgrowth/
Encouraging Smart Growth
Housing Zone
http://www.housingzone.com/
International City/County
http://www.icma.org/
Management Association
KnowledgePlex
Lincoln Institute of Land Policy
Smart Growth America
Smart Growth Gateway
Smart Growth Online
SprawlWatch Clearinghouse
Sustainable Communities Network
Urban Land Institute
UrbanFutures.org

http://www.knowledgeplex.org/
http://www.lincolninst.edu/
http://www.smartgrowthamerica.org/
http://www.smartgrowthgateway.org/
http://www.smartgrowth.org/
http://www.sprawlwatch.org/
http://www.sustainable.org/
http://www.uli.org/
http://www.urbanfutures.org/

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 259

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Community Resources
The following list is offered as a resource for both government and citizens in developing
a sustainable community:
Action Coalition for Global Change. Building A Sustainable Community: An Organizer's
Handbook. (California: Action Coalition for Global Change ). This handbook can be used as a
primer to educate people on sustainability or as a guide to create a full sustainable community
project. To obtain this resource contact ACGC at: 415.341.1126.
Ames, Steve C. Guide to Community Visioning. (Chicago, IL: APA Planners Press, 1998; rev.
ed.). This book, a product of the Oregon Visions Project, helps citizens understand the
connection between the kind of place they want their community to be and the policies that will
support their vision. It shows how to design and implement an effective visioning process, while
providing ideas on how to use graphics in visioning. To obtain this resource contact Planners
Book Service, 122 S. Michigan Avenue, Suite 1600, Chicago, IL 60603; Tel: 312.786.6344; Fax:
312.431.9985; Website: http://www.planning.org/bookstore.
Bernstein, Scott. Using the Hidden Assets of America's Communities and Regions to Ensure
Sustainable Communities. This paper discusses the benefits to communities that can be
achieved by recognizing the assets of cities and regions, removing the barriers to asset valuation,
and implementing new tools to gain marketplace recognition of these assets held in common.
This resource can be found online at: http://www.cnt.org.
Berry, Wendell. Community in 17 Sensible Steps. In this speech delivered in November 1994
Wendell Berry suggests a set of rules for a sustainable local community to follow in order to
function. This resource can be found online at: http://www.utne.com.
Calthorpe, Peter. "Ahwahnee Principles". (Sacramento, CA: Local Government Commission,
1990). This is a statement of community and regional principles of sustainability and
implementation strategy. This resource can be found online at:
http://www.lgc.org/freepub/land_use/principles.html.
English, Mary R., Jean H. Peretz and Melissa J. Manderschied. Smart Growth for Tennessee
Towns and Counties: A Process Guide. (Knoxville, TN: University of Tennessee, 1999). This
guide summarizes the basic steps in a smart growth visioning and planning process and includes
two case studies and an extensive list of resources. To obtain this resource contact the Energy,
Environment and Resources Center, 311 Conference Center Building, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996-4134; Tel: 423.974.4251; Fax: 423.974.1838; Email: menglish@utk.edu. This
resource can be found online at: http://eerc.ra.utk.edu/smart.htm.
Fodor, Eben V. Better Not Bigger: How to Take Control of Urban Growth and Improve Your
Community. (Gabriola Island, BC: New Society Publishers, 1998). This resource provides
insights, ideas and tools to empower citizens to resist rapid growth and develop a sustainable
vision for their community that is an attractive alternative.
Hempel, Lamont C. Sustainable Communities: From Vision to Action. (Claremont, CA:
Claremont Graduate University, 1998). This booklet addresses the role of healthy communities in
restoring social and ecological balance in our individual lives and in our collective search for
enduring forms of justice, prosperity, security, and environmental quality. It is about a vision of
sustainability and its application to community. To obtain this resource contact the School of
Politics and Economics, Claremont Graduate University, Claremont, CA 91711-6163.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 260

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Hempel, Marilyn. Community Sustainability Survey: Is Your Community Becoming More -Or Less -- Sustainable?. (Claremont, CA: League of Women Voters Population Coalition, 1996).
To obtain this resource contact the LWV Population Coalition, 1476 N. Indian Hill Boulevard,
Claremont, CA 91711.
Hesselbein, Frances, Marshall Goldsmith, Richard Beckhard, Richard F. Schubert, eds. The
Community of the Future. (San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass, 1998). This collection of essays
explores what is important about our communities today, how they will look tomorrow, and
what we can do to prepare for the challenges of the future.
Hren, Benedict J. and Nick Bartolomeo. "Coming to Terms with Sustainability". Environments for
Life Conservation Issues Forum Series. (Izaak Walton League of America, March l997). The Izaak
Walton League of America created this conservation issues guide to help people organize and
conduct a discussion about sustainability.
Hannum, Hildegaarde, ed. People, Land, and Community: Collected E.F. Schumacher Society
Lectures. This collection features works by various prophets of citizen initiative in response to
environmental and economic degradation. Topics explore the importance of sustainability,
community, and healthy, local economies. To obtain this resource contact The CED Bookshop,
CCE Publications, PO Box 1161, Port Alberni, B.C. V9Y 7MI, Canada; Tel: 888.255.6779; Fax:
250.723.1922.
Krizek, Kevin. A Planners Guide to Sustainable Development (Planning Advisory Service
Report Number 467). (Chicago, IL: American Planning Association, 1998). This report serves to
describe sustainable development, overview global progress, propose strategy for local initiatives,
and serve as a reference to more specific reviews of this topic. To obtain this resource contact the
American Planning Association, 122 S. Michigan Avenue, Suite 1600, Chicago, IL 60603; Tel:
312.431.9100; Fax: 312.431.9985.
Les Cheneaux Economic Forum 1998. A Plan for Les Cheneaux: Where Nature, Economy and
Community Come Together. This booklet traces the development of the Les Cheneaux
Economic Forum project, which was formed in 1996 to protect and improve the quality of life in
Les Cheneaux in the Great Lakes region of Michigan. To obtain this resource contact Linda
Hudson or John Griffin, Les Cheneaux Economic Forum, P.O. Box 10, Cedarville, MI 49719; Tel:
906.484.3935.
Maser, Chris. Sustainable Community Development: Principles and Concepts. (Delray, FL: St.
Lucie Press, September 1996). This publication describes sustainable community development as
a community-directed process of development that is based on human values, active learning,
shared communication and cooperation, within a fluid system, void of quick fixes.
Morrish, William R and Catherine R Brown. Planning To Stay: Learning to See the Physical
Features of Your Neighborhood. (Milkweed Editions, 1994). This handbook helps
neighborhoods understand their physical surroundings and create a vision for future
development and change.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 261

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

National Center for Environmental Decision-Making Research (NCEDR), University of
Tennessee. Community Sustainable Development: Assets, Challenges, and Needs. (Knoxville,
TN: 1999). This report presents the results of interviews conducted with representatives from
eleven communities to determine the assets and challenges of sustainable development initiatives
and project strategies, and to assess community needs during all phases of sustainability-related
projects. To obtain this resource contact NCEDR, 314 Conference Center Building, Knoxville,
TN 37996-4138; Tel: 423.974.3939; Fax: 423.974.4609. This resource can be found online at:
http://www.ncedr.org/pdf/ncedr98-17.pdf.
National Civic League. The Community Visioning and Strategic Handbook. (1996). This 53page handbook explains the community visioning process, both the rationale behind it and how
to do it. To obtain this resource contact the National Civic League, 1445 Market Street, Suite
300, Denver, CO 80202; Tel: 800.223.6004.
The National Council for Science and the Environment (NCSE). Achieving Sustainable
Communities: Science and Solutions.(2002). A Report from the second National Conference on
Science, Policy, and the Environment released by The National Council for Science and the
Environment (NCSE). This far-reaching document underscores new approaches for creating
strong economies and healthy communities and provides constructive approaches to address
complex issues such as economic development versus ecosystem protection. Available online at
cnie.org/NCSEconference/2001conference/report/page.cfm?FID=1692. Editors of the report have
also created a list of the "Top 10 Keys To Sustainable Communities." These "Keys" identify the
crucial aspects of achieving sustainable communities at the local, regional and national levels. To
receive a printed copy of the conference report, send your name and mailing address to
conference@NCSEonline.org.
The Nature Conservancy, Center for Compatible Economic Development. Pathways: Building a
Local Initiative for Compatible Economic Development.(1999). This publication, based on a
successful approach in Northampton County, VA, and other communities, describes how to
build a collaborative, broadly-based vision for enhancing a community's quality of life. It shows
how to develop strategies that address key threats, build on local comparative advantages and
increase the community's capacity to meet the needs of all citizens. To obtain this resource
contact CCED, 7 East Market Street, Suite 210, Leesburg, VA 20176; Tel: 703.779.1728; Fax:
703.779.1746; Email: cced@tnc.org. This resource can be found online at:
http://www.cced.org/Pathways.htm.
Study Circles Resource Center. Building Strong Neighborhoods: A Study Circle Guide for
Public Dialogue and Community Problem Solving. (Pomfret, CT: Topsfield Foundation, Inc.,
1998). This guide helps organizers use study circles - small-group, democratic discussions - to
help people address ways to strengthen their sense of community and build better
neighborhoods. To obtain this resource contact the Study Circles Resource Center, P.O. Box 203,
Pomfret, CT 06258; Tel: 860.928.2616; Fax: 860.928.3713; Email: scrc@neca.com.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 262

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

C. Natural Resources
Issues and Findings
The environmental resources of the City of Richmond include topography and geology, rivers
and streams, floodplain, water resources, wetlands, soil quality, woodlands and urban forestry.
These environmental resources help to define the character and unique identity of the
community, support the natural systems that provide for wildlife and a healthy environment and
provide opportunities for recreation. Consideration of the natural environment and its
relationship to economic development and social benefit reveals these issues:
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

The interests of the property owners and development needs must be balanced with
environmental conservation and preservation.
The Citizens of Richmond must be safeguarded from the adverse impacts that result
from flooding and pollution of the land, air and water.
Water quality must be valued as important to the health of the community. Ground
water resources are a critical source of support for the City’s potable water system and
should be protected from inappropriate land use activities. Aquifer and well heads must
be protected.
Reduction of damaging storm water runoff throughout the city can be achieved through
urban reforestation.
Wetlands are a critical component of Richmond’s natural environment and play an
important role in the management of storm water. Wherever feasible they should be
preserved.
Species habitat preservation should be considered as an integral part of open space
preservation.
The City of Richmond needs to consider soil quality as an important natural resource
and essential element to the natural ecosystem of the community. Soil erosion prevention
and quality improvement issues need to be addressed.

Wayne County Natural Resources Summit, February 15, 2005
Representatives from the below organizations met on February 15th 2005 to discuss focus points
related to the preservation of Wayne County’s natural resources.
Wayne County Strategy:
The people of Wayne County will protect, preserve, and develop our land, homes, building and
environment to enhance our future while honoring our heritage.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 263

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Participating Organizations:
Cope Environmental Center
Earlham College
Friends of the Middlefork
Geographic Information System Office (GIS)
Hayes Arboretum
I.U. East
Red Tail Conservancy
Resource Inventory Council
Richmond Parks Department
Richmond Power & Light
Richmond Sanitary District
Richmond-Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council
Soil & Water Conservation District
SPUR
Wayne-Union Solid Waste District
Wellhead Planning Team
Strategic Points and Focus that came from the Summit:
Enhanced Infrastructure for Recreation
• The support of the Rails to Trails project that aligns along the Historic National Road.
• Expansion of the Cardinal Greenway through Wayne County.
• Encourage a County-wide Park System that will be able to assist the expansion of
recreation opportunities for Wayne County residents. This links into healthier lifestyles
as well as a quality of life piece.
Land Conservation
• Bio-diversity (conservation of forest, various habitats, encourage native plantings,
conserve wetlands ).
• Greenspace; Save and encourage growth of greenspace.
• Conserve farm land.
• Continue to encourage and educate the agriculture community on environmentally
sound agricultural practices. The group acknowledged that there has been great
improvement in this area; it just needs to expand the educational process.
• Confined Animal Feeding (CAFO’s) ordinance or codes in place for Wayne County to
limit type of development when it occurs in Wayne County.
• Soil Quality—includes erosion concerns and contamination concerns.
Water Quality
• Wellhead Protection – make sure our ordinances are strong enough to protect the
wellheads.
• Buffer Zones.
• Continue and expand current Watershed Planning
• Clean rivers and streams (no mercury, etc)
• Confined Animal Feeding (CAFO’s)—same concern listed in Land Conservation.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 264

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Solid Waste Management
• Recycling program ; continue to promote and expand the recycling program in the
County.
• Hazardous waste; help organizations and individuals understand the process with using
and disposing of hazardous waste.
• Waste reduction; provide communication and education regarding waste reduction.
County-wide Aesthetics Plan
• Buried power lines to clean up the “look” of the County.
• Trees; keeping trees and encourage planting of trees along visual areas.
• Flowers; planting of flowers along US 27 and US 40. Visually enhance the feel and look
of the County.
• Enhanced landscaping requirements on new businesses locating in the County (similar
to what Richmond did about 5 years ago).
Public Education and Health
• Data Collection; gather data and information on lead paint, radon, asbestos, indoor air
quality. Distribute information regarding existing older buildings and how to help
residents or businesses effectively deal with these challenges. Follow this up with
educating the public officials, home owners and business representatives.
• Remediation of contaminated buildings.
• Public Education; assist the Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council in the
public education arena.
Mass Transportation
• Create a county-wide mass transportation system.
• Inter-city bike access and/or the creation of bike lanes along US 40.
Sustainable Economic Growth
Assist existing/new businesses and industries to strive for the following points:
• Clean energy production or utilize alternative energy sources.
• Encourage the movement to become Certified ISO 14001.
• Businesses become recycling friendly.
• Adoption of being a partner with beautification efforts.

Natural Resource Description
Slope
The 2-mile fringe of the Richmond area ranges in slope from 0-25%. The area mostly has a slope
of 0-10%. This slope is located within the city limits encompassing the more urban area of the
downtown and the commercial/agricultural area in the northwest quadrant. The northeast
quadrant is where the more critical slopes can be found within the city limits. North and south,
just outside the city limits, is where more varying slopes continue. The slopes show that the
Richmond area drains into creeks and rivers flowing into the Whitewater River. The Slope
Analysis Quadrant maps are located at the end of this chapter.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 265

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Topography
Topography is the surface elevation of natural and man-made features of the earth. The
topography of Richmond is generally flat within the city limits. The northeast and the south part
of the 2-mile fringe have varying elevations with ridges and valleys with a generally flat area
between the Whitewater River and the Clear Creek in the southern part of the 2-mile fringe area.
The Northwest quadrant is generally flat making it good for commercial development or farming
except along Clear Creek. The downtown area and directly across the Whitewater River are
predominantly level probably due to existing development. The areas with varying elevations are
along the rivers and creeks with some higher areas in the proximity of the intersections of
Garwood Road and A Street within the city limits and south of Smyrna Road and northeast of
Interstate 70. The area within Smyrna Road and Interstate 70 has the highest elevations in the 2mile fringe. This could be due to the Richmond Landfill. The lowest elevations in the Richmond
area are along the Whitewater River and the Clear Creek. The Topography Map is located at the
end of this chapter.
Geological Rock Formations
A great concentration of rock known as “The Richmond” is exposed throughout the area. Named
after the City of Richmond this rock has been thoroughly studied and is 200 feet thick where
developed. A rock formation is a body of rock of substantial proportions with distinguishing
characteristics that allow geologists to map, describe, and name it. Rocks and rock formations
are a result of natural processes. The rock cycle is a process involving the formation, alteration,
destruction, and reformation of rocks. This cycle occurs at
or near the Earth's surface. Most of the Richmond rock
has clean cuts of limestone and shale. The lowest
formation is shale called Arnheim and is about eighty feet
thick. The next formation is the Waynesville shale that
consists of about 50 feet. Above that is limestone called
Liberty that is colored gray and blue, which varies from 2
to 10 inches in thickness. The Liberty is in the
Whitewater formation.

Layers of limestone and shale at the White Water
Gorge
Source: waynet.org

Most of the Richmond rock is even-bedded, with clean
cut alternations of limestone and shale, in this respect
strongly resembling the Maysville formation. The
limestone beds vary in thickness from two to ten inches
(generally less than six inches) and comprise less than half
of the whole mass, perhaps not more than one-fourth. On
the whole the color of its limestone is less blue and grayer
or dove colored than that of the Maysville. The various
layers of Richmond’s limestone strata are primarily
identifiable by the fossils contained within it.

The lowest formation in the Richmond group is the Arnheim shale. It rests on the Mount Auburn
formation and is about eighty feet thick. It consists largely of dark bluish shale with a
subordinate amount of blue limestone. In part it is even-bedded like most of the lower
formations, but it has other portions, especially near the top, which look like the Mount Auburn.
In these the limestone occurs in rough irregular beds, or nodules with scraggy masses of
indurated clay, strongly contrasted with the regular bedding above and below.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 266

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The next fifty feet of the Richmond is called Waynesville shale. To a casual view it is not unlike
most of the other formations but at many places its gray or dove colored limestone, associated
with strikingly blue or greenish-blue shales, gives something of distinction to its appearance. Its
shales are sometimes highly calcareous or marly. It is well-exposed near Oxford. Above the
Waynesville are thirty-five feet of beds, known as the Liberty limestone, which differ little from
the Waynesville except in fossils, though the limestone layers are more abundant and bluer. All
that lies above the Liberty in this area is included in the Whitewater formation. The physical
characteristics of this are not unlike those of the Mount Auburn beds of the Maysville. It lacks
the clean-cut even bedding of the formations immediately below it. Both the limestone and shale
from the Whitewater formation have a rough concretionary or nodular appearance. While blue
in places, the color is more generally brownish or yellowish. Much of the limestone is very
impure.
Floodplain
The City of Richmond including the two mile fringe contains numerous areas of floodplains
running north to south. The most predominant floodplain runs along the three forks of the
Whitewater River. Other areas include Clear Creek, O’Brian Ditch, and Lick Creek, along the
west side of the city. To the southeast there is a floodplain shown around the Short Creek. The
larger floodplains include the southern part of the Whitewater River and the northern part of the
Middle Fork, Whitewater River. All floodplains in Richmond are considered 100-year
floodplains (defined below). The likelihood of flooding can be increased due to increased
development and paving which speeds up the rate in which storm waters run off the land.
Wetlands are involved in recharging the underlying groundwater system which is a source of
drinking water for many communities.
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
The U.S. Congress established the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) with the passage of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968. The NFIP is a Federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance as a protection against flood losses
in exchange for State and community floodplain management regulations that reduce future
flood damages. Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between communities and
the Federal Government. If a community adopts and enforces a floodplain management
ordinance to reduce future flood risk to new construction in floodplains, the Federal
Government will make flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood losses. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance alternative to disaster
assistance to reduce the escalating costs of repairing damage to buildings and their contents
caused by floods.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) manages the National Flood Insurance
Program. The three components of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) are:
•
•
•

Flood Insurance
Floodplain Management
Flood Hazard Mapping

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 267

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Nearly 20,000 communities across the United States and its territories participate in the NFIP
by adopting and enforcing floodplain management ordinances to reduce future flood damage. In
exchange, the NFIP makes federally backed flood insurance available to homeowners, renters,
and business owners in these communities. Community participation in the NFIP is voluntary.
Flood insurance is designed to provide an alternative to disaster assistance to reduce the
escalating costs of repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Flood
damage is reduced by nearly $1 billion a year through community implementation of sound
floodplain management requirements and property owners’ purchase of flood insurance.
Additionally, buildings constructed in compliance with NFIP building standards suffer
approximately 80 percent less damage annually than those not built in compliance. Every $3
paid in flood insurance claims saves $1 in disaster assistance payments.
In addition to providing flood insurance and reducing flood damages through floodplain
management regulations, the NFIP identifies and maps the Nation’s floodplains. Mapping flood
hazards creates broad-based awareness of the flood hazards and provides the data needed for
floodplain management programs and to actuarially rate new construction for flood insurance.
The three basic components of the NFIP Program include: identifying and mapping flood-prone
communities, the requirement that communities adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations, and the provision of flood insurance.
The “100-year” Standard
The NFIP would not be able to offer insurance at affordable rates without the existence of risk
management (floodplain management) to reduce flood losses. In order to assess and manage the
flood risk, a national standard was needed. After extensive study and coordination with Federal
and State agencies, this group recommended the 1-percent-annual-chance flood (also referred to
as the 100-year or “Base Flood”) be used as the standard for the NFIP.
The 1-percent-annual-chance flood was chosen on the basis that it provides a higher level of
protection while not imposing overly stringent requirements or the burden of excessive costs on
property owners. The 1-percent-annual-chance flood (or 100-year flood) represents a magnitude
and frequency that has a statistical probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, or
stated alternatively, the 100-year flood has a 26 percent (or 1 in 4) chance of occurring over the
life of a 30-year mortgage.
The 1-percent-annual-chance flood is a regulatory standard used by Federal agencies, and most
States, to administer floodplain management programs. The 1-percent-annual-chance flood
standard has been used since the inception of the NFIP and is used for floodplain management
purposes in all of the 19,200 participating communities that have been issued flood hazard maps.
Floodplain Management
Section 1315 of the 1968 Act prohibits FEMA from providing flood insurance to property owners
unless the community adopts and enforces floodplain management criteria established under the
authority of Section 1361© of the Act. These criteria are established in the NFIP regulations at 44
CFR §60.3. The community must adopt a floodplain management ordinance that meets or
exceeds the minimum NFIP criteria. Under the NFIP, “community” is defined as:
“any State, or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian tribe or
authorized tribal organization, or Alaska Native village or authorized native
organization, which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for the areas within its jurisdiction.”

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 268

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The Program has served as an important impetus for the establishment of floodplain management
programs nationwide in the approximately 19,700 participating communities and most States
and territories. Community participation in the NFIP is voluntary.
Minimum NFIP Floodplain Management Requirements
Under the NFIP, the minimum floodplain management requirements that a community must
adopt depends on the type of flood risk data (detailed FIS and FIRMs with BFEs or approximate
A Zones and V Zones without EFEs) that the community has been provided by FEMA. Under
the NFIP regulations, participating NFIP communities are required to regulate all development
in SFHAs. “Development” is defined as:
“any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations or storage of equipment or materials.”
Before a property owner can undertake any development in the SFHA, a permit must be obtained
from the community. The community is responsible for reviewing the proposed development to
ensure that it complies with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. Communities
are also required to review proposed development in SFHAs to ensure that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by Federal
or State law, such as 404 wetland permits from the Army Corps of Engineers or permits under
the Endangered Species Act.
Under the NFIP, communities must review subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions to ensure that these
development proposals are reasonably safe from flooding and that utilities and facilities servicing
these subdivisions or other development are constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
In general, the NFIP minimum floodplain management regulations require that new construction
or substantially improved or substantially damaged existing buildings in A Zones must have
their lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
Non-residential structures in A Zones can be either elevated or dry-flood proofed. In V Zones,
the building must be elevated on piles and columns and the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structural member of the lowest floor of all new construction or substantially improved existing
buildings must be elevated to or above the BFE.
Ordinance Adoption
Once FEMA provides a community with the flood hazard information upon which floodplain
management regulations are based, the community is required to adopt a floodplain management
ordinance that meets or exceeds the minimum NFIP requirements. FEMA can suspend
communities from the Program for failure to adopt once the community is notified of being floodprone or for failure to maintain a floodplain management ordinance that meets or exceeds the
minimum requirements of the NFIP. The procedures for suspending a community from the
Program for failure to adopt or maintain a floodplain management ordinance that meets or
exceeds the minimum requirements of the NFIP are established in the NFIP regulations at 44
CFR §59.24(a) and (d).

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 269

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Community Rating System
The NFIP’s Community Rating System (CRS) provides discounts on flood insurance premiums
in those communities that establish floodplain management programs that go beyond NFIP
minimum requirements. Under the CRS, communities receive credit for more restrictive
regulations, acquisition, relocation, or flood proofing of flood-prone buildings, preservation of
open space, and other measures that reduce flood damages or protect the natural resources and
functions of floodplains.
The CRS was implemented in 1990 to recognize and encourage community floodplain
management activities that exceed the minimum NFIP standards. Section 541 of the 1994 Act
amends Section 1315 of the 1968 Act to codify the Community Rating System in the Community
Rating System in the NFIP, and to expand the CRS goals to specifically include incentives for
reducing the risk of flood-related erosion and for encouraging measures that protect natural and
receive credit towards premium reductions for activities that contribute to them.
Under the CRS, flood insurance premium rates are adjusted to reflect the reduced flood risk
resulting from community activities that meet the three goals of the CRS:
1.

Reduce flood losses:
•
Protect public health and safety
•
Reduce damage to property
•
Prevent increases in flood damage from new construction
•
Reduce the risk of erosion damage
•
Protect natural and beneficial floodplain functions

2. Facilitate accurate insurance rating
3. Promote the awareness of flood insurance

Wetlands

Wetlands are lands where the nature of soil development and the types of plant and animal
communities living in the soil and on its surface are determined by the saturation with water.
Wetlands are a precious ecological resource and are home to a varying combination of plants and
animals. Wetland habitats contain the highest diversity of plants and animals, including
endangered species, in Indiana. There are six different classifications that make up the wetlands
that are taken from the Classification of Wetlands and Deepwater Habitats of the United States.
Richmond has several areas of wetland located primarily adjacent to the rivers and creeks as
identified in the Natural Features Maps at the end of this chapter. Included in the Richmond area
are artificially flooded, intermittently exposed, seasonally flooded, semi-permanently flooded and
temporarily flooded areas. These classifications are all non-tidal which are not influenced by
oceanic tides but characteristically may be affected by wind or surface waves in lakes.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 270

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The artificially flooded classification is controlled by means of pumps or pipes in combination
with dikes or dams. Intermittently exposed classification areas have surface water present
throughout the year except in years of
extreme drought. This classification is
located sparingly around lakes with a larger
patch north of Interstate 70 and south of
Nolandsfork Road. Seasonally flooded
classification areas have surface water
present for extended periods especially early
in the growing season, but is absent by the
end of the season in most years. This
classification is primarily located in
concentrated areas along the East Fork
Whitewater River just before the
Ohio/Indiana State line. Semi-permanently
flooded areas have surface water persistent
Source: www.bsu.com
throughout the growing season in most years.
Lastly, temporarily flooded has surface water
present for brief periods during the growing season, but the water table generally is well below
the soil surface for most of the season. This classification is located along the rivers and creeks
with the majority along the West and East Fork Whitewater River and the southern part of the
Whitewater River just outside the city limits. Careful exploration and examination should be
conducted prior to development in these areas and special emphasis to protect the wetlands
should be considered.

Waterways
Rivers
The main waterways in the City of
Richmond are the Whitewater River
and the 3 tributary rivers that flow into
it, the West Fork Whitewater River,
Middle Fork Whitewater River, and
the East Fork Whitewater River. The
East Fork flows into the Middle Fork
just before Chester Boulevard. The
West Fork flows into the Middle Fork
forming the Whitewater River just
north of the Norfolk Southern
Railroad.

White Water River
Source: www.inwater.usgs.gov

Whitewater Gorge
Formed during the ice age and positioned where the West, Middle, and East Fork Whitewater
River come together, the Whitewater Gorge has many exceptional and beautiful natural features.
The gorge can be explored either by boat or by hiking trails. The main gorge trail is about 3 ½
miles long and winds through waterfalls, cliffs, quarries, and over numerous bridges. Trails run
from Industries Road South to Test Road. The gorge is a significant physical feature of
Richmond and as such is an attraction for both residents and visitors with many points of
interest and opportunities for recreation. Due to the age of the geological formation this is a
prime location for fossil hunting and exploration of the physical history of the area.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 271

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Creeks and Ditches
East of the Whitewater River is the Short Creek, A.F. Scott Ditch, Quigg Ditch, Comers Run
Creek, and the South Richmond Ditch. West of the Whitewater River is the Clear Creek,
O’Brian Ditch, and the Lick Creek. Locations of Richmond’s primary creeks and ditches can be
found on the Natural Resources Maps at the end of this chapter.
The Middlefork Reservoir
The Middlefork Reservoir, just east of the
city boundary of the upper part of the
Northeast quadrant, is home to many
recreational activities. The IndianaAmerican Water Company supplies
Richmond with an average of 6.6 million
gallons of water a day. The Middlefork
Reservoir Park is a 405-acre facility
including a 177-acre stream and spring-fed
lake. In addition to fishing (lake is stocked
by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources) and boating (six-horsepower
limit), the park also hosts indoor and
outdoor picnic areas, remote control
airplane strip, large playground and hiking
trails.

Middlefork Reservoir
Source: waynet.org

Proposed Aquifer and Well Head Protection Areas
The sand and gravel aquifer in the City of Richmond is the water source for the majority of the
City’s residents and businesses. If this resource were to become contaminated and no longer
potable, securing an alternative source of water would be a great financial burden to the
residents and businesses of the City. Therefore, aquifer protection must be a priority for all land
use decisions within the aquifer or aquifer recharge area.
A well head refers to the surface and subsurface area which surrounds water well or well field
that supplies a potable water supply system, through which pollutants are reasonably likely to
move toward and reach such water well or well field.
The City of Richmond should support the development and implementation of the Aquifer and
Wellhead protection programs for all public supply wells, and encourage the siting and
construction of individual wells in a manner which protects existing water users and ground
water supplies.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 272

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Proposed Aquifer Protection District West

Proposed Aquifer Protection District East

Soils
The Soil of Wayne County (excerpt), prepared by Dr. Ansel Gooding from www.wayne net .org
Soils of Wayne County are derived from mixtures of limestone, shale and crystalline rock
materials that were scraped up and crumbled by continental glaciers and deposited 15,000 to
20,000 years ago. The glacial deposit, known as "glacial till", in Wayne County, is a nearly ideal
mixture of sand, silt and clay particles, well supplied with mineral plant nutrients. When the
glacier was melting away, great floods of water flowed south-southeastward across the county
and formed the valleys of the East and West Forks of the Whitewater River and their several
tributary streams. The glacial floodwaters deposited sheets of gravel, sand and silt along the
stream courses, and these sediments were later weathered to form good soils. Since glacial times
the Whitewater and its tributaries have cut floodplains into the gravel beds, leaving the latter as
a series of nearly level river terraces. The present floodplains have interbedded layers of sand, silt
and clay, which make excellent soils, and they continue to receive silty sediments washed from
cultivated fields of the uplands.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 273

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Primary Soil Classification Characteristics
The soil survey is an inventory of the soils found in the city. The survey indicates, among other
things, the type of soil, the slope gradient, the suitability of the soils to support certain uses and
the degree and kind of limitation of each soil type for certain uses.
The maps that accompany the soil survey are useful as a planning tool since one is able to
determine those areas that present problems for development. While the soil maps are
reasonably accurate, it is still recognized that unmapped pockets of different soil types can exist
within a designated soil boundary line. Therefore, these soil maps do not eliminate the need for
soil sampling and testing on each building site.
The soil survey for the City of Richmond concluded that there are 52 different types of soil
located in the planning area. The two most common soil types are Crosby silt loam(CrA) and
Urban land-Miami complex (UoA) which are primarily located in the northwestern part of the
city. Richmond’s key soils types are identified and located in the Soils Analysis Map located at
the end of this chapter.
CrA Crosby silt loam – This is a moderately poorly drained soil and has a seasonal high water
table at 0.5 to 2.0 ft. and is on rises on uplands. The surface layer is silt loam and has moderately
low or moderate organic matter content (1.0 to 3.0 percent). Available water capacity is moderate
(6.2 inches in the upper 60 inches). Droughts and wetness are management concerns for crop
production. This soil responds well to tile drainage. Slopes are 0 to 2 percent.
UoA Urban land-Miami complex – Urban land and Miami soil are so intricately mixed in this
complex that showing them separately is not practical. Urban land soil is covered by streets and
buildings, obscuring the soil identification. Miami has a high water capacity while surface runoff
is slow. Miami soil is used for parks, open spaces, building site development, lawns, etc. The
water table is high at greater than 6.0 ft.
Hydric Soils
Definition:“A hydric soil is a soil that formed under conditions of saturation, flooding, or
ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper
part” (59 Fed. Reg. 35680, 7/13/94)
Soils that are considered hydric are indicated on Soils Analysis Map located at the end of this
chapter. These soils due to their slow rate of water transmission are not considered good for
development. The Hydric Soils map is located at the end of this chapter.
Future Development
Based on soil and slope analysis for the city, several areas may be identified as potentially
hazardous for urban development. Some areas which are limited for development are desirable
for public recreation, open spaces, conservation of existing natural features, and maintenance of
valuable biological communities and protection of natural storm drainage system. Changes in
existing soil characteristics because of development, grading, increased runoff and removal of
vegetation may cause severe erosion, water pollution and flooding with subsequent damage to
public and private property. In order to build, a reconnaissance survey is one step that should be
employed. This survey should be done particularly when the site is on virgin or unknown
territory. A reconnaissance survey includes fieldwork observing vegetation, extent and nature of
rock outcrops, evidences of soil erosion and gullying, the character of the landscape, the presence
or absence of boulders at the surface, and many other details of the terrain.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 274

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Wooded Areas
While much of Richmond’s natural
vegetation has been cleared for
development or agriculture, significant
amounts of woodland remain,
particularly along stream corridors, in
wetland and conservation areas, and in
the northern quadrant of the city. In
addition to providing environmental
benefits such as habitat for wildlife and
improved air and water quality,
woodlands make important
contributions to Richmond’s visual
character.
Source: waynet.org

A variety of tree species are found in
the planning area. Tree species found in floodplains of the Whitewater River include box elder,
sycamore, green ash, willow, hackberry, buckeye, honey locust and silver maple. Beech, maples,
cherry and redbud are more commonly seen in tributary ravines. Red oaks, other oaks, walnut,
hickory and sugar maple appear on better-drained uplands. In developed portions of the
planning area, some reaches of wooded river corridor show extensive growth of bush
honeysuckle, a non-indigenous species.
Forest buffers are found along portions of the Whitewater and its tributaries. These buffers are
extremely important for providing wildlife habitat, filtering sediment from storm water, and
moderating water temperatures. Scattered woodlots are found throughout the planning area.
These are typically wet areas that were not drained for farming because of seasonal ponding.
Often developers find these to be attractive sites for homes, but building within them can
irreparably damage the woodlots.
A qualitative analysis of tree stands should be considered to determine whether development is
appropriate at all. In those cases, a mechanism will be necessary to ensure economic impacts are
considered. Also, tree protection during construction activities may require additional policy
attention.
Wooded areas are classified into 5 different types as classified by the National Land Cover Data.
These are areas characterized by tree cover; tree canopy accounts for 25-100 percent of the cover
with the last 2 classifications considered more as wetlands. They are deciduous forest, evergreen
forest, mixed forest, woody wetlands, and emergent herbaceous wetlands.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 275

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The majority of the woodlands found in the planning area are classified as deciduous forest that
is areas dominated by trees where 75 percent or more of the tree species shed foliage
simultaneously in response to season change. The most prominent deciduous forest areas are the
Hayes Arboretum, 801 Elks Road in the northern part of the Northeast quadrant just south of the
East Fork Whitewater River and an area just southwest of the southwest quadrant west of
Salisbury and Airport Road. Evergreen forests are areas dominated by trees where 75 percent or
more of the tree species maintain their leaves all year. This is the second largest classification in
the area that is located mostly in the Hayes Arboretum area, west of Salisbury and Airport Road,
and east of the Middle Fork Whitewater River just north of Smyrna Road. Mixed forests are
areas dominated by trees where neither deciduous nor evergreen species represent more than 75
percent of the cover present. Mixed forests are located sparingly in deciduous forest areas.
Woody wetlands are areas where forest or shrub land vegetation accounts for 25-100 percent of
the cover and the soil or substrate is periodically saturated with or covered with water. This
classification is located by existing wetland areas along rivers and creeks. The last classification
is emergent herbaceous wetlands that are areas where perennial herbaceous vegetation accounts
for 75-100 percent of the cover and the soil or substrate is periodically saturated with or covered
with water.

Strategies and Recommendations
N R 1. Adopt Stronger Measures to improve the Quality and Control of Stormwater
• The City of Richmond should preserve and/or maintain forest buffers along streams and
tributaries which improve water quality by removing silt and dissolved chemicals that
pollute surface water.
• Where forest cover has been removed it should be replanted.
• Impervious surfaces, such as parking lots should be kept to a minimum to reduce the
amount of stormwater that is generated following development. The city will adopt
standards that allow for alternative surface treatments and/or reduction in parking lot
requirements.

Program Resources
Stormwater and Sediment Control
Stormwater and Sediment Control Program initiatives and activities are specifically targeted to
construction and land disturbing activities associated with residential, commercial, institutional,
industrial, public, and special land uses. Staff advises and works with land users to develop and
apply workable solutions to address stormwater quality resource issues. Working primarily
through Soil and Water Conservation Districts, and often in cooperation with other local, state,
and federal agencies, the Division provides assistance to planners, developers, builders,
contractors, engineers, surveyors, realtors, business owners, organizations,
governmental entities, educational institutions, and the public.
Initiatives of the program are divided into three distinct categories:
•
•
•

Education, Technical Assistance, and Public Outreach
Technical Resources and Information
Construction Site Permit

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 276

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The Program is comprised of three Stormwater Specialists. In addition, Division Resource
Specialists (County based) assist in implementing program objectives at the local level.
N R 2. Conserve Wetlands
Wetlands are critical components of the natural environment and play an important part in
managing stormwater. Several wetlands areas are contained within the planning area. The
following policies should be implemented:
•
•

Site Designers should avoid wetlands in designing sites and locating buildings and
roads.
Wherever feasible wetlands should be conserved, unless approved by the U.S Army
Corps of Engineers consistent with a required wetland mitigation plan, but the City
will strongly stress avoidance of wetlands for development.

Program Resources
The following agencies and organizations can provide more information about wetlands and
associated wildlife. The type of available assistance is listed as bulleted items for each group.
U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service
Offices are located at the USDA Service Center in each county and are listed in the telephone
book under U.S. Department of Agriculture. Also see Indiana Field Service Centers at:
http://www.in.nrcs.usda.gov/
Assistance includes:
•
•
•

Providing funding for wetland restoration programs
Providing technical assistance on wetland management
Making wetland determinations on agricultural land

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/
Assistance includes:
• Providing wetland information regarding education, regulations, and protection
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
620 South Walker Street
Bloomington, IN 47403-2121
Phone: 812-334-4261
http://midwest.fws.gov/Bloomington/
Assistance includes:
•
•

Providing technical assistance on wetland and wildlife management
Providing technical guidance regarding threatened and endangered species

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 277

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

N R 3. Promote Urban Reforestation
Urban Forestry is the planting and maintenance of trees within a city or community. It is an
important strategy for reducing both carbon emissions and energy expenditures for urban
heating and cooling. An article in the August/September 1991 issue of Urban Forests magazine
reported that "as much as 15 times the amount of carbon can be prevented from entering the
atmosphere through the energy-conservation effects of an urban tree as can be retained through
carbon storage alone." Furthermore, the studies cited in Urban Forests indicate that energy savings
from trees planted near homes and buildings range from 10 to 50 percent for cooling and from 4
to 22 percent for heating.
The following policies are recommended:
•
•

•

The City of Richmond will reforest City Property.
The City will implement tree preservation requirements which require a qualitative
analysis of existing forest resources, and mandate a full replacement. Code changes
can be prepared that encourage management practices during site construction to
ensure that trees designated for preservation will survive the construction process.
The City will prepare a brochure for property owners promoting the benefits of
urban reforestation.

Program Resources
American Forests is the nation's oldest citizen-based conservation organization and a leader in
the urban forestry movement. American Forests sponsors several programs including Urban
Ecological Analysis, Global ReLeaf, and Cool Communities. The organization also convenes
National Urban Forest Conferences and maintains the National Urban Forest Council, a national
network of individual active in the development of urban forests.
City Green 5.0 software is available for download from the American Forests website. This GIS
application calculates dollar benefits based on natural systems, including the economic value of
tree growth.
National Arbor Day Foundation helps promote tree care and conservation and educates people
on tree issues. Sponsors the following programs: Celebrate Arbor Day, Trees for America, Rain
Forest Rescue, Conservation Trees, Arbor Day Farm, Conferences for Knowledge and Growth,
Tree City USA.
Several cities have developed urban forest programs that train citizen volunteers to help care for
trees and educate the public about the value of urban forests. One example is the Citizen
Forester Program in Washington, D.C.
The Society of Municipal Arborists produces the magazine City Trees, as well as conferences and
a website that create networking and educational opportunities for urban tree professionals and
students.
TreeLink.org is a site created to provide information, research, and networking for people
working in urban and community forestry.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 278

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

N R 4. Species Habitat Protection
The City’s development process currently does not address the location, conservation and
mitigation of species habitat. Species habitat protection should be considered as an integral part
of open space preservation. This could include outright purchase of undeveloped, public open
space.
N R 5. Conservation of Natural Underground Resources
The aquifer, soils and rock resources found within the planning area are to be conserved for
future use by applying the following recommendations:
• Soil conservation as an aim in itself should be the subject of special concern regarding
future development especially in the two-mile fringe area.
• A program for the reduction of ground water pollution from agricultural and industrial
sources should be developed and implemented. The program should also provide for
effective mechanisms for the dissemination of information on the use of pesticides to all
farmers.
• The City Council will approve the proposed east and west aquifer protection districts as
defined by the Wellhead Protection Committee.
• Farm management practices should systematically be aligned with soil conservation
targets, primarily by changing crop patterns and production techniques, and by
promoting organic farming methods.
• The long-term protection of Richmond's major underground resources should be
adequately provided for in the future land use plan, on the basis of a realistic costing
exercise.

Program Resources
Division of Soil Conservation
Indiana State Department of Agriculture
150 W. Market Street, Suite 414
Indianapolis, IN 46204
317/232-8770
317/232-1362 FAX
Mission
To facilitate the protection and enhancement
of Indiana's land and water.
The Division of Soil Conservation belongs to the Indiana Conservation Partnership. Working
together, the Partnership provides technical, educational, and financial assistance to citizens to
solve erosion and sediment-related problems occurring on the land or impacting public waters.
One of the broad goals of the Division of Soil Conservation is to reduce erosion occurring on
agricultural land, along with associated nutrient transport. The objectives of the Division's
agricultural conservation efforts include:
• Reducing soil erosion on each acre of agricultural land to "T" or below.
• Controlling all off-site sedimentation from agricultural land by the application of best
management practices (BMPs), as well as reducing off-site movement of nutrients that
could adversely affect surface water quality.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 279

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Services available to agricultural land users:
•
•
•
•
•

Assembly of information required for creating or revising resource conservation
management plans.
Generation of on-site evaluations that determine type and extent of erosion and
nutrient problems present.
Assistance in the selection, design, and location of specific conservation practices.
Supervision of installation and subsequent maintenance of practices selected.
Assistance to land users in the utilization of local, state, and federal erosion and
nutrient control cost-share programs and application processes.

Indiana Conservation Partnership Business Plan 2003 – 2008
For each of the priority statewide resource concerns identified, the plan provides background
information followed by a vision for the future of that respective natural resource. The plan also
provides statements of intent that in essence spell out goals for the Indiana Conservation
Partnership to accomplish over the next five years to address each of the statewide resource
concerns. They are followed by specific action steps that will be taken over the next 18 to 24
months toward fulfilling the respective statements of intent. At least one of the partners of the
Indiana Conservation Partnership has been designated to take the lead on each of the respective
action steps and a date has been established for the action to be underway and/or completed as
appropriate. The lead partner of course will need full cooperation and assistance from the other
partners to accomplish the task. Other agencies and organizations that are mentioned in specific
statements of intent or action steps are there because the Indiana Conservation Partnership has
identified them as agencies and/or organizations that the partnership will need to seek input and
cooperation from in order to accomplish the respective statements of intent or actions.
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
Indiana State Office
6013 Lakeside Boulevard
Indianapolis, IN 46278-2933
Soils data for Indiana is found at the Web Soil Survey and the Soil Data Mart web sites. At the
Web Soil Survey site the user can view soils information from anywhere in the United States that
has digital soils information. The user can also make thematic maps, run tables, view Soil Survey
manuscripts (where available), etc. On the Soil Data Mart the user can download soils data or
view and print reports. Other information is found at the Indiana Online Soil Surveys site.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 280

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

D. Historic Preservation
Issues and Findings
Historic preservation helps make the City of Richmond a beautiful and desirable city in which to
live, work, and visit. The architecture, scale, and uniqueness of the city's old buildings have a
broad appeal. The future of the city will be determined by the ability to successfully revitalize
residential communities and the downtown area, and thereby capitalize on the unique assets of
the past. Unfortunately unwise public policies and a lack of information have threatened the
livability and "sense of place" that makes Richmond’s older neighborhoods unique. The following
list identifies several historic preservation key issues:
1.

Economic resurgence must be encouraged by developing resources that address specific
problems now facing Richmond’s historic heritage.

2. Preservation of existing housing stock will be a key element in solving the need for urban
sprawl, providing better places to live and creating lively communities because:
• It takes advantage of existing resources.
• It makes financial sense: rehabilitation is generally cost-competitive with new
construction and puts older buildings back on the tax rolls.
• It prevents further sprawl, since people live where buildings already are, rather than
where on land that was once open, green space.
• It keeps existing neighborhoods vital and attractive.
• It protects the buildings that tell Richmond’s story.
3. Through implementing smart growth principles and controlling sprawl Richmond can
recycle buildings, protect the historic downtown and neighborhoods, preserve farmland,
maintain character, and promote a sense of place.
• Sprawl has drained the life out of Richmond’s downtown and residential
neighborhoods where historic buildings are concentrated, leaving them vulnerable to
under use, neglect, and demolition.
• Left unchecked, sprawl will eliminate all Richmond’s transportation choices except
driving, thus adding to pressures to create or widen roads that often destroy historic
resources or degrade their settings.
4. Understanding the effects of transportation decisions, particularly road building helps
elected officials and planners protect historic sites and landscapes.
Design Guidelines
Government standards for road design can have a tremendous impact on historic places.
Insensitive roads and bridges destroy sidewalks, trees, and other features that make communities
and landscapes; thoughtful projects protect community character and scenic landscapes.
The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is now trying to create a better balance between
improved highways and the natural and human environments that surrounds them. DOT has
encouraged states to adopt a more flexible approach to road design, one that protects and
enhances the livability and special features of communities. Known as "Context Sensitive
Design", these methods can help preservationists and planners work together to improve the
quality of life for people in cities, suburbs, and rural areas.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 281

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The National Register of Historic Places
The National Register's standards for evaluating the significance of properties were developed to
recognize the accomplishments of all peoples who have made a significant contribution to our
country's history and heritage. The criteria are designed to guide State and local governments,
Federal agencies, and others in evaluating potential entries in the National Register.
Criteria for Evaluation
The quality of significance in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and
culture is present in districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects that possess integrity of
location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association, and:
• That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad
patterns of our history; or
• That are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
• That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction,
or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that
represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual
distinction; or
• That have yielded or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or
history.

Richmond’s Historic Buildings
Starr Piano Company Warehouse and Administration Building (added 1995 - Building #81000024)
300 S. 1st St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic Significance: Event Area of
Significance: Performing Arts, Industry Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 1875-1899, 1900-1924,
1925-1949 Owner: Local Gov't Historic Function: Industry/Processing/Extraction Historic
Sub-function: Manufacturing Facility Current Function: Vacant/Not In Use
Of all the activity the Whitewater Valley gorge supported, the Starr Piano Company was the
most significant. When the first piano craftsmen arrived in Richmond, Indiana in 1872, the city
had two banks, a public library, and gas lighting. The next year, when the first piano was
produced, Richmond became the county seat of Wayne County and had a population of 10,000.
The piano factory was known under several names in its early years, but the Starr family backed
the enterprise from its inception. By 1878, James and Benjamin Starr, together with a piano
craftsman and creative genius named Chase, had incorporated their piano works. In that year,
the company purchased the present site, on the finest waterpower on the Whitewater River.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 282

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Gennett Family Becomes Part of Company
In 1893, the Starr Piano received national recognition
at the Colombian Exposition in Chicago. The same
year the Company was incorporated anew, with
Benjamin Starr as president and Henry Gennett as
the secretary-treasurer. The arrival of Gennett and
his entrepreneurial skill gave a much-needed spark
(boost) to the Company. By 1906, the Starr Piano
Company had 600 employees.
In 1916, a six-story building for the manufacture of
phonographs and records was erected. Over the
years, the Starr Piano, Phonograph and Gennett
Records were joined by Starr Refrigerators and
freezers, synchronizer units designed for use with
talking picture projection machines, wooden
propellers and a valve for barrage balloons during
World War I, wooden cabinets for radios and even
wooden billy clubs to quiet a local factory strike. No
such labor disputes occurred at the Starr, as most of
the craftsmen considered themselves employed for
life. By the 1920's, the Starr was a broad based
musical empire flourishing in the gorge on South 1st
Street.

Source: waynet.org

Pennsylvania Railroad Station
Designed by famed architect Daniel Burnham, Richmond’s Pennsylvania Railroad Station was
completed in 1902, a combined passenger station and freight depot that boasts a massive
entrance portico with unique brick columns and terra cotta ornamentation. The station remains
one of Indiana’s best unaltered examples of his work. Burnham’s design and construction of the
Chicago World’s Fair/Columbian Exposition in 1893 was an immensely influential development
in the history of American architecture. Aside from Frank Lloyd Wright, few American
architects have achieved great fame outside the profession. Burnham’s combination of talent,
charisma and accomplishment put his name on a park and hotel, among other forms of
recognition, in Chicago where his legacy is
revered. The Pennsylvania Railroad Company
was clearly pursuing excellence in 1899 when
it chose Burnham’s office to design its station
on North E Street in Richmond. At the peak
of railroad travel more than 25 passenger
trains a day passed through the station.
Presidents Franklin Roosevelt, Harry
Truman and Dwight Eisenhower made
whistle stops and a parade of legendary jazz
musicians who recorded at Richmond’s Starr
recording studio, Hoagy Carmichael, Cole
Source: waynet.org
Porter, Louis Armstrong and Tommy Dorsey,
came through “the Depot,” as it is locally
known.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 283

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The threat: Richmond’s vacant Pennsylvania Railroad Station appeared on the 10 Most
Endangered list in 1996 and was erroneously considered safe when a redevelopment deal that
seemed poised for success was unsuccessful. Time and weather have exacted their toll: roof
damage and water infiltration have led to a partial collapse of interior floors. Finding an
alternative use for the building must occur soon or the building will not survive.

Railroad Station Interior
Source: waynet.org

Miller Brothers Building
The Miller Brothers Building on Fort Wayne Avenue in Richmond is being renovated. The
windows have been re-exposed in preparation
for the opening of a new furniture business by
Roger Richert.
The Depot district building's three floors once
housed one of the largest wholesale hardware
firms in the country. The 95,000-square-foot
building occupies most of the block between
North Eighth and Seventh streets on Fort
Wayne Avenue. The original portion was
constructed in 1890, with expansions in 1900
and 1913.
Source: waynet.org

Gaar Mansion and Farm Museum
Listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the Gaar Mansion
was built in 1876 for Abram and Agnes Gaar.
Original cost to build the mansion was $20,000. It was completed in
8 months. Complete interior/exterior restoration of this Victorian
style mansion boasts hand-painted ceilings, parquet wood floors, and
features many original furnishings with their actual bills of sale.
Advanced for its day, the home has many unique features, including
central heating, indoor plumbing, gas, electricity, and an intercom
system throughout the residence.

Source: waynet.org

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 284

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Jonas Gaar and his sons, Abram and John Milton Gaar, and Jonas' son-in-law, William G. Scott
were founders of Gaar-Scott and Company, the leading manufacturer of threshing machines and
steam engines from 1842 to 1911.
Bethel A.M.E. Church (added 1975 - Building - #75000032)
200 S. 6th St., Richmond

Source: waynet.org

National Register of Historic Places description:
Historic Significance: Event,
Architecture/Engineering Architectural Style:
Classical Revival, Romanesque Area of Significance:
Education, Politics/Government, Architecture,
Religion Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 18751899 Owner: Private Historic Function:
Education, Religion, Social Historic Sub-function:
Civic, Religious Structure, School Current
Function: Religion Current Sub-function:
Religious Structure

Birdsall, Mary, House (added 1999 - Building - #99001155)
Also known as Lauramoore Friends House 504 North West Fifth St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic Significance: Event, Person,
Architecture/Engineering Architectural Style: Italianate Historic Person: Birdsall, Mary
Thirstlewaite. Significant Year: 1860. Area of Significance: Architecture, Social History,
Politics/Government Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 1875-1899 Owner: Private Historic
Function: Domestic Historic Sub-function: Single Dwelling, Current Function: Domestic
Current Sub-function: Hotel
Dennis, David Worth, House (added 2001 - Building - #01000404)
610 W. Main St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic Significance: Person,
Architecture/Engineering Architect, builder, or engineer: Hasecoster, John A. Architectural
Style: Queen Anne, Classical Revival Historic Person: Dennis, David Worth, Dennis, William
Cullen Significant Year: 1909, 1904, 1895 Area of Significance: Education, Architecture Period
of Significance: 1875-1899, 1900-1924, 1925-1949, 1950-1974 Owner: Private Historic Function:
Domestic Historic Sub-function: Single Dwelling2 Current Function: Domestic Current Subfunction: Single Dwelling2

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 285

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Earlham College Observatory (added 1975 - Building #75000034)
National Rd., Earlham College campus, Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic
Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering
Architectural Style: Late Victorian Area of Significance:
Source: waynet.org
Education, Science, Architecture Period of Significance:
1850-1874 Owner: Private Historic Function: Education Historic Sub-function: Research
Facility Current Function: Education Current Sub-function: Research Facility
Gennett, Henry and Alice, House (added 1983 - Building - #83000043)
1829 E. Main St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic
Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering Architectural
Style: Colonial Revival Area of Significance: Architecture,
Performing Arts Period of Significance: 1900-1924, 1925-1949
Owner: Private Historic Function: Domestic Historic Subfunction: Multiple Dwelling, Single Dwelling2 Current
Function: Commerce/Trade Current Sub-function: Business
Source: waynet.org

Hicksite Friends Meetinghouse (Wayne County Museum) (added 1975 - Building #75000036)
N. A St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic Significance: Event,
Architecture/Engineering Architect, builder, or engineer: Mathews,William N., Hoover,George
Architectural Style: No Style Listed Area of Significance: Architecture, Religion Period of
Significance: 1850-1874 Owner: Private Historic Function: Religion Historic Sub-function:
Religious Structure Current Function: Education, Recreation And Culture Current Subfunction: Museum
Leland Hotel (added 1985 - Building - #85000362)
900 S. A St., Richmond
Also known as Leland Motor Inn
National Register of Historic Places description:
Historic Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering
Architect, builder, or engineer: Nichols, Charles
Wheeler Architectural Style: Mission/Spanish Revival
Source: waynet.org
Area of Significance: Community Planning And
Development, Commerce, Transportation,
Architecture, Social History Period of Significance: 1925-1949 Owner: Private Historic
Function: Commerce/Trade, Domestic Historic Sub-function: Hotel, Restaurant Current
Function: Commerce/Trade

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 286

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Murray Theater (added 1982 - Building - #82000053)
1003 Main St., Richmond
Also known as Richmond Civic Theater-Norbert Silbiger
Theater
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic
Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering Architect,
builder, or engineer: Elliott,Fred W. Architectural Style:
Chicago, Pueblo Area of Significance:
Source: waynet.org
Entertainment/Recreation, Architecture Period of
Significance: 1900-1924 Owner: Private Historic Function:
Recreation and Culture Historic Sub-function: Theater Current Function: Recreation and
Culture Current Sub-function: Theater
Richmond Gas Company Building (added 1981
- Building - #81000023)
100 E. Main St., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places
description: Historic Significance: Event,
Architecture/Engineering Architect, builder, or
engineer: Collier, Charles. Architectural Style:
Late Victorian. Area of Significance: Industry,
Commerce, Architecture Period of Significance:
1850-1874, 1875-1899 Owner: Local Government
Source: wayne.org
Historic Function:
Industry/Processing/Extraction Historic Subfunction: Energy Facility Current Function: Work In Progress
Scott, Andrew F., House (added 1975 - Building - #75000039)
126 N. 10th St., Richmond

Source: waynet.org

National Register of Historic Places description: Historic
Significance: Architecture/Engineering, Person Architectural
Style: Italianate Historic Person: Scott, Andrew F. Significant
Year: 1858 Area of Significance: Commerce, Art,
Politics/Government, Architecture, Religion, Social History
Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 1875-1899 Owner: Private
Historic Function: Domestic Historic Sub-function: Single
Dwelling2 Current Function: Domestic Current Sub-function:
Single Dwelling2

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 287

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Smith, Samuel G., Farm (added 1983 - Building - #83000044)
W of Richmond at 3431 Crowe Rd., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description: Historic Significance:
Architecture/Engineering Architect, builder, or engineer: Powel & Co., Edward, Bryant, Edward
B. Architectural Style: Italianate, Queen Anne Area of Significance: Architecture, Agriculture
Period of Significance: 1875-1899 Owner: Private Historic Function: Agriculture/Subsistence,
Domestic Historic Sub-function: Agricultural Fields, Processing, Single Dwelling2, Storage
Current Function: Agriculture/Subsistence, Domestic Current Sub-function: Agricultural
Outbuildings, Single Dwelling2
Wayne County Courthouse (added 1978 - Building #78000042)
Bounded by 3rd, 4th, Main and S. A Sts., Richmond
National Register of Historic Places description:
Historic Significance: Architecture/Engineering
Architect, builder, or engineer: McLaughlin
Architectural Style: Other, Romanesque Area of
Source: waynet.org
Significance: Architecture Period of Significance: 18751899 Owner: Local Gov't Historic Function:
Government Historic Sub-function: Courthouse Current Function: Government Current Subfunction: Courthouse

Historic Districts
East Main Street--Glen Miller Park Historic District (added 1986 - Wayne County #86000612)
National Register of Historic Places description: Both sides of E. Main St. from N. Eighteenth
to N. Thirtieth Sts. and Glen Miller Pk. E of Thirtieth St., Richmond (2160 acres, 84 buildings, 11
structures, 5 objects)
Historic Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering Architect, builder, or engineer:
Hasecoster,John A., Et al. Architectural Style: Mixed (More Than 2 Styles From Different
Periods) Area of Significance: Community Planning And Development, Landscape Architecture,
Architecture Period of Significance: 1825-1849, 1850-1874, 1875-1899, 1900-1924, 1925-1949
Owner: Private , Local Gov't Historic Function: Domestic, Landscape Historic Sub-function:
Park, Single Dwelling2 Current Function: Domestic, Landscape Current Sub-function: Park,
Single Dwelling2
Old Richmond Historic District (added 1974 - Wayne County - #74000025)
National Register of Historic Places description: Roughly bounded by C & O Railroad, S. 11th,
South A, and alley S of South E St., Richmond
(2500 acres, 212 buildings) Historic Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering, Person
Architect, builder, or engineer: Multiple Architectural Style: Mixed (More Than 2 Styles From
Different Periods) Historic Person: Quinn, William Paul; et al. Significant Year: 1840, 1818
Area of Significance: Commerce, Transportation, Black, Education, Politics/Government,
Architecture, Religion, Social History Period of Significance: 1800-1824, 1825-1849, 1850-1874
Owner: Private, Local Government Historic Function: Commerce/Trade, Domestic, Religion
Historic Sub-function: Business, Religious Structure, Single Dwelling2

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 288

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Current Function: Commerce/Trade, Domestic, Religion
Current Sub-function: Business, Religious Structure, Single Dwelling2
The Old Richmond Historic District dates back to 1816 and covers more than 250 acres. This
district includes South 4th Street formerly called Front Street was Richmond’s first street and the
main street until the National Road came through. This area contains a large amount of Federal
and Greek Revival style homes as well as some Victorian and early 20th century structures too.
Also included in this district are Richmond’s first public square, first park and the city’s public
cemetery. Originally settled by the Quakers this area later became occupied by free blacks and
German immigrants.
Reeveston Place Historic District (added 2003 - Wayne County - #02001171)
National Register of Historic Places description: Bounded by South B, South E, South 16th and
South 23rd Sts., Richmond
(910 acres, 218 buildings, 2 objects) Historic Significance: Architecture/Engineering
Architect, builder, or engineer: Werking, Charles and Paul, Spielman, Henry
Architectural Style: Greek Revival, Second Empire Area of Significance: Architecture,
Community Planning And Development, Landscape Architecture
Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 1875-1899, 1900-1924, 1925-1949 Owner: Private
Historic Function: Domestic Historic Sub-function: Single Dwelling2
Current Function: Domestic Current Sub-function: Single Dwelling2
Richmond Railroad Station Historic District “Hoosier Bowery” (added 1987 - Wayne County
- #87001808)
National Register of Historic Places description: Roughly bounded by Norfolk & Southern RR
tracks, N. Tenth St., Elm Pl., N. D St., & Ft. Wayne Ave., Richmond
(110 acres, 22 buildings)
Historic Significance: Event, Architecture/Engineering
Architect, builder, or engineer: Multiple
Architectural Style: Chicago, Classical Revival, Late Victorian
Area of Significance: Industry, Commerce, Transportation, Architecture
Period of Significance: 1850-1874, 1875-1899, 1900-1924
Owner: Private , Local Gov't
Historic Function: Commerce/Trade, Industry/Processing/Extraction
Historic Sub-function: Manufacturing Facility
Current Function: Commerce/Trade, Vacant/Not in Use
The Depot District, as many residents call it, encompasses four city blocks and the Pennsylvania
Railroad Station is the focal point. Designed by famous architect Daniel Burnham the building
was built in 1902 as Neo-Classical style. This District showcases the history of Richmond being
a railroad center and home to many industries. The majority of the structures date back to 1875
to 1910 with a few from the mid-1860s.
Starr Historic District “Gas Light District” (added 1974 - Wayne County - #74000026)
National Register of Historic Places description: Roughly bounded by N. 16th, E and A Sts.,
and alley W of N. 10th St., Richmond
(1600 acres, 102 buildings) Historic Significance: Architecture/Engineering, Person
Architect, builder, or engineer: Multiple Architectural Style: Italianate, Italian Villa
Historic Person: Multiple
Area of Significance: Industry, Commerce, Engineering, Architecture, Religion, Social History,
Invention Period of Significance: 1800-1824, 1825-1849, 1850-1874, 1875-1899

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 289

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Owner: Private, Local Gov't Historic Function:
Domestic Historic Sub-function: Single Dwelling2
Function: Domestic Current Sub-function: Single
Dwelling2
The Starr Historic District is located near the north side
of Richmond and is occupied by large townhouses and
mansions that are of Italianate, Second Empire, Greek
Revival, and Queen Anne style. The district has
Source: waynet.org
developed by Charles and Elizabeth Starr and later
influenced much of Richmond’s early development and
went on to own Starr Piano. A good portion of the residents were leaders in business and
industry in the 19th century. This area has always been a residential district.
Starr East Main Street-Glen Miller Park Historic District – “Millionaires Row”
East Main Street is the major entrance into Richmond and is known for being a broad tree-lined
residential street. Many of the residences on this street were owned by some of the wealthiest
people in the area such as architect John Hasecoster, piano and phonographer Henry Gennett,
and lawn mower manufacturer Elwood W. McGuire. There are also several brick houses that
were built before 1880 when the National Road first went through. The Glen Miller Park has
been around for over 100 years and was plotted by Pennsylvania Railroad executive John F.
Miller. It has been owned by the city since 1880. There is a distinct relationship between the
residences and the park and the access to the center of town.
The Historic National Road
The Historic National Road was America's first interstate highway established by an act of
Congress in 1806. The Indiana portion was built between 1829 and 1834, linking the eastern
seashore with the western interior. In 1996, the Historic National Road was designated as a state
scenic route. And in 2002, The Historic National Road from Maryland to St. Louis was
designated as an All-American Road. Driving the route evokes a sense of traveling through the
passageways of history from historic architecture and early 19th century farms to nostalgic gas
stations, historic monuments and genuine Midwestern scenic beauty.
History of the National Road
The construction of the nation's first highway,
built with federal funds in the early nineteenth
century, was not without government mandates.
For citizens' own protection, legislators
prohibited any tree stump in the National Road
to exceed 15 " in height.
Carved through dense forest, the National Road
preceded most Indiana cities, and was, literally,
Source: Waynet.org
the road to civilization. Before the National Road
made its way westward from Maryland in 1811,
Centerville was the only town besides Indianapolis between Richmond and Terre Haute. The
crude highway completed its journey in 1832, with its last stop in western Illinois. As many as
200 wagons a day passed through towns along the route.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 290

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

The nickname "Main Street of America" was honestly earned as towns such as Centerville sprang
up from enterprising pioneers who recognized the need for inns, blacksmith shops and grocers.
In fact, settlers keen on cashing in on National Road traffic often offered their land to the
government for free.
To maximize National Road frontage, Centerville folks, whose homes or businesses lined the 100'
Main Street, narrowed the road to its present 65' by building onto the fronts of their buildings.
Archways between Federal style row-houses allowed access to the rear of buildings and
backyards. New homes were built almost flush with the sidewalk, and porches were built on the
side of homes instead of in front so that residents could sit out without being smothered in dust
(the first section of Indiana's National Road to be paved, however, was Centerville's Main
Street). Today, more than 100 buildings in Centerville's Historic District are listed on the
National Register of Historic Places.

Strategies and Recommendations
The preservation of Richmond’s rich historic heritage can be further achieved by implementing
the following policies:
H P 1. Historic Preservation Commission
• The City of Richmond will utilize the Historic Preservation Commission to be a citywide historic preservation agency. As such, it performs many functions. These include
identifying and preserving historic properties, reviewing development and demolition
activities proposed in the city, providing public information and assistance on
preservation practices, and providing staff support to neighborhood historic district
commissions. Specific functions are recommended in these areas:
•

•

•

The Historic Preservation Commission will assist the Historical Society and other
allied groups to develop local museums showcasing the history and heritage of the
Richmond area, encouraging the preservation of the material evidence of the
community's important role in America's growth and development.
The Historic Preservation Commission will provide National Register nomination
information to businesses, schools, and libraries in the county to promote expansion
of citizen support for historic preservation, and to encourage formation of a County
Landmarks Commission with which the City's Commission could cooperate.
The Historic Preservation Commission will coordinate the efforts of various
organizations concerned with community history and preservation.

H P 2. Preservation of Historic Districts that Recognize the Historic Resources of the

City, Whether They be National Register Class or Locally Designated

The preservation of Richmond’s historic districts will be furthered by implementing the
following recommendations:
•
•
•

Continue to inventory historical events, sites, buildings and related resources.
Extend and enrich the inventory of historical sites and buildings, and implement design
review guidelines for historic districts and properties.
Identify, preserve, and use the historical resources for future generations, including
structures, artifacts, sites, and oral tradition.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 291

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

•
•
•
•

Establish a review process for proposed remodeling or demolition of structures and
artifacts in the historic district, wherein the Historic Preservation Commission would be
involved in approving required permits.
In the City's process of reviewing plans for development/redevelopment, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall be informed and given opportunity to ascertain the
relative historic preservation concerns.
Achieve historic district status for all of Richmond's historic areas, and adopt zoning
overlay districts that incorporate design/rehabilitation/restoration/preservation criteria.
Strengthen the Historic Preservation Commission's capabilities by having staff and/or
consultant resources.

Program Resources
Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana
The organization established by volunteers, now ranks as the largest private statewide
preservation group in the United States, with an Indianapolis headquarters and nine regional
offices staffed by professionals who help save and restore Indiana’s old buildings. The
Foundation promotes preservation and education about the techniques and benefits of saving
and restoring historic places through, tours, publications, meetings and workshops. In addition
the foundation will provide assistance in forming local preservation groups and may provide
grants and loans to aid with a specific preservation effort.
Indiana Historical Society
Since 1830, the Indiana Historical Society has been connecting people to the past by collecting,
preserving, interpreting and disseminating Indiana history. The independent, nonprofit
organization also publishes books and periodicals; sponsors teacher workshops; provides youth,
adult and family programming; assists local historical groups throughout the state; and
maintains one of the largest collections of material on the history of Indiana and the Old
Northwest. The Indiana Historical Society is one of the oldest historical societies in the United
States, and one of the largest with more than 10,000 members. The Society opened a new
165,000-square-foot headquarters in downtown Indianapolis in July 1999.
The National Trust for Historic Preservation
The National Trust for Historic Preservation is a private, nonprofit membership organization
dedicated to saving historic places and revitalizing America's communities. Recipient of the
National Humanities Medal, the Trust was founded in 1949 and provides leadership, education,
advocacy, and resources to protect the irreplaceable places that tell America’s story. Staff at the
Washington, D.C., headquarters, six regional offices and 28 historic sites work with the Trust’s
270,000 members and thousands of preservation groups in all 50 states. The National Trust offers
many programs and educational opportunities in historic preservation the most relevant being:
•
•
•

Preservation Grants
Heritage Tourism program provides training, technical, and marketing services to
communities to develop their heritage tourism opportunities, including the sensitive use
of historic and cultural resources.
The Statewide and Local Partnerships Program strengthens the capacity of statewide
nonprofit preservation organizations through mentor relationships, workshops,
technical assistance, and other support.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 292

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives Program
The Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives program is one of the nation's most successful
and cost-effective community revitalization programs. The program fosters private sector
rehabilitation of historic buildings and promotes economic revitalization. It also provides a
strong alternative to government ownership and management of such historic properties. The
Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives are available for buildings that are National
Historic Landmarks, that are listed in the National Register, and that contribute to National
Register Historic Districts and certain local historic districts. Properties must be incomeproducing and must be rehabilitated according to standards set by the Secretary of the Interior.
Save America's Treasures Grants
Federal Agencies: National Park Service and National Endowment for the Arts
Recipients: Department of Interior agencies and related agencies; Indian tribes; State and local
governments; non-profit organizations
www2.cr.nps.gov/treasures/
Since its creation in 1999 in recognition of the approaching new millennium, the Save America's
Treasures program has provided $188 million for preservation of historic properties and cultural
artifacts. Historic properties receiving funds must be nationally significant and be threatened,
endangered, or otherwise demonstrate an urgent preservation need.
The program has funded projects at properties ranging from the cliff dwellings at Mesa Verde, to
buildings on Ellis Island, to San Juan's El Morro fortress. The need continues to outpace available
dollars, however. In FY 2001, the program could only fund about 15 percent of the applications
received.
Funded by the Federal Historic Preservation Fund and administered by the National Park
Service (NPS) in partnership with the National Endowment for the Arts, the grants require a
dollar-for-dollar non-Federal match. The maximum grant is $1 million, and the minimum is
$250,000 for historic property projects and $50,000 for cultural artifact projects. In FY 2004, the
program was funded at $33 million.

E. Environmental Protection
Issues and Findings
As Richmond’s growth and development moves further and further to the urban fringe it
competes with open space habitat and prime farmland. The loss of open space impacts the
environment in multiple ways:
•
•
•
•

Natural landscape features are threatened
Stormwater runoff prior to development is filtered and captured by natural landscape,
is trapped above impervious surfaces and accumulates and runs off into streams picking
up pollutants along the way
Wildlife sanctuaries are lost
Farmland loss hastens the use of lesser quality soils for production; thereby heightening
conversion of forest and wetlands for crop production; and increasing dependency on
irrigation, fertilizers and chemicals.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 293

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Sustainable development cannot be achieved unless jobs are environmentally "clean" in that they
do not contribute to air or water pollution or create toxic wastes. Ecological integrity ensures
"that every person enjoys the benefits of clean air, clean water, and a healthy environment at
home, at work, and at play" (PCSD, 1996:14). This goal is met, in part, through conserving natural
resources and decreasing exposure to toxic substances and environmental hazards.
The Richmond-Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council (RWEAC)
The Richmond-Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council mission promotes awareness
and understanding and encourages sustainable use of local resources. RWEAC sponsors
educational events, TV programs, workshops and informational luncheons which focus on
various ways that businesses and individuals can improve the environment. The Richmond
Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council also serves as the management team for
“CLEAN” city activities. RWEAC will work with the City Council to ensure that ordinances and
plans are adopted to encourage implementation of this Quality of Life Plan.
The Richmond-Wayne County Environmental Awareness Council is working towards The
CLEAN city designation and has issued the following mission statement:
The City of Richmond, Indiana, is committed to providing a safe, clean, and healthy
community for its current and future residents. City leaders are committed to
continually enhancing quality of life and cleanliness of our local environment. The City
will publish a comprehensive "State of Richmond Environment" report every third year,
with a brief progress report each intervening year.
1.

The City of Richmond will comply with requirements and voluntary
commitments set forth by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management to help ensure all residents, visitors and corporations in our
community have access to clean water, clean air, and green space.

2. Businesses and organizations will be assisted in making sound environmental
decisions in accordance with best available technology and practices at every
step of their proceedings.
3. Our commitment to the environment will be made evident through energy
efficiency in all city departments, conservation of fossil fuel resources
throughout city and community facilities and services, and pollution-prevention
plans for our air, soil, and water.
Brownfields
With certain legal exclusions and additions, the term `brownfield site' means real property, the
expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential
presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant.
Richmond’s designated Brownfields sites are listed below.
•
•
•
•
•

Johnson & 2nd St
930 North "E" Street
214 E Main St
50 N. 5th Street
1100 Industries Road

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 294

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Definition Source:
The Brownfields Site definition is found in Public Law 107-118 (H.R. 2869) - "Small Business
Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act" signed into law January 11, 2002.
Brownfield Reclamation

Before: View of the Swayne Robinson & Co. Foundry from E.
Main St.
Source: www.in.gov

After: View of the Wayne County Jail from E. Main St.
Source: www.in.gov

Several Brownfield redevelopment projects have already been completed.
The Swayne, Robinson & Co./Wayne County Jail project is an example of a successfully
redeveloped Brownfield site; turning an eyesore, a health hazard, and a financially stagnant
property into an aesthetically pleasing, useful, income-producing, county-owned facility.
From 1842 until 1997, the Swayne, Robinson & Co. Foundry operated on the near west side of
downtown Richmond in Wayne County. A former grey-iron foundry, the facility manufactured
farm implements and other machinery, such as wood lathes. At the time of its closing, it was the
oldest family-owned foundry in America. Unfortunately, the property quickly became more than
just an eyesore; it was an accident waiting to happen. A fire in March 1999 destroyed a large part
of the structure. Soon after, the owners declared bankruptcy, leaving behind drums full of
unknown liquids in the building. Piles of foundry sand covered much of the property. The
deteriorating condition of the building allowed easy access, and signs of trespassers were
obvious. The county applied for a Brownfield Environmental Assessment from IDEM in March
1999. IDEM conducted the environmental investigation during the summer of 1999, and the
report was completed in October 1999. Analytical results of the samples indicated low levels of
contamination, including arsenic, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and dieldrin in the soil on
the site, as well as low levels of ethylbenzene in one ground water sample. Additional sampling
and a risk assessment were conducted by a private consulting firm hired by the county. Much of
the contaminated soil was removed during redevelopment of the site.
Wayne County acquired the option to purchase the real estate from Swayne, Robinson & Co. for
$15,000 and forgave the taxes owed on the property and the environmental cleanup cost if the
cleanup did not exceed $100,000. If cleanup cost exceeded $100,000, then the county had the
option to back out of the deal. The county took possession of the property in June 2000.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 295

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

During demolition and cleanup of the site, cooperation between the city of Richmond and the
county allowed for foundry sand to be disposed of at the city-owned Richmond Sanitary Landfill
at no cost to the county. The city of Richmond viewed the arrangement positively,
acknowledging that the city eventually would have been responsible for cleaning up the foundry
if the county had not stepped in.
Based on results of the environmental reports and risk assessment, IDEM issued a Comfort Letter
to the county in August 2002, indicating that the property was suitable for redevelopment.
Today, the site is home to the Wayne County Jail, capable of holding up to 418 inmates. Prisoners
were transferred from the old jail, which was designed to hold 108 inmates, to the new one in
August of this year. Many local residents were initially opposed to building the new jail at the
site, preferring instead that it be developed commercially to bring more people to the downtown
area. However, even those who were initially opposed understood the necessity of building a new
jail. The site’s convenient location to the courthouse and other county offices also made sense,
and it is aesthetically pleasing design enhanced the area, rather than detracting from it as
originally feared. The increased size of the new jail also will allow the county to rent out cell
space to other counties and the state in the future, bringing in additional revenue to the
community. Once the county assesses staffing needs at the new facility, there is a potential for
additional job creation, adding to the economic benefits of the new jail.

The Richmond Sanitary Department
Industrial Pretreatment (Sanitary Labs)

The Richmond Sanitary District's industrial pretreatment program is mandated as a provision of
the District's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit No. IN 0025615 and
regulated through the United States Environmental Protection Agency and Indiana Department
of Environmental Management. The goal of the District's industrial pretreatment program is to
maintain a non-interfering, biologically treatable influent, to protect the East Fork of the
Whitewater River from pass through of toxic chemicals and heavy metals, to create and maintain
high quality, land applicable sludge, and to protect the citizens of Richmond from hazardous
substances that could be discharged from an industrial setting.

The Household Hazardous Waste Program

The Household Hazardous Waste Program was developed and implemented to provide a service
for those residents of Richmond Sanitary District and also protect the environment. This
program protects the drinking water, the wastewater treatment plant, and the community. It
also saves space in our landfill and assures that hazardous household wastes are disposed of in a
safe and environmentally friendly manner at no cost to the residents.
Most household chemicals are accepted by the Richmond Sanitary District for disposal.
Common items accepted are: paints, household solvents, motor oil, car batteries, bug and weed
killers, etc.

Wastewater Treatment Facility

The Richmond Sanitary District's wastewater treatment facility, the 1988 recipient of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's Award of Excellence for outstanding operation and
maintenance of a water pollution control facility, reflects the District's commitment to achieving
and maintaining the highest standards of water quality.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 296

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Richmond Sanitary District's Material Recycling Facility

This program is on a voluntary basis through the Richmond Sanitary District. The District
provides free containers called “Richie Rollers” in which to place all recyclable items. The Richie
Rollers are either 32-gallon or 65-gallon containers. The customer may specify which Richie
Roller would best fit their needs. There is no additional charge for picking up recyclable material
or the use of the Richie Roller. This makes recycling as easy as throwing away garbage.

Education
Cope Environmental Center
Mission Statement
“Cope Environmental Center
promotes the sustainable use of the
earth’s resources through
education, demonstration, and
research.”
Vision Statement
“Cope Environmental Center
inspires and challenges individuals
and communities to achieve
ecologically sustainable lifestyles
to secure a sustainable future for
all life on earth.”
Source: waynet.org

Cope Environmental Center is the
primary project of the Francis Parks Foundation and is organized exclusively for charitable,
educational, and scientific purposes. As a not-for-profit organization (501(C)(3)), Cope
Environmental Center provides education, research, and demonstrations that promote the
sustainable use of the earth's resources. It is governed by a board of directors and supported by
membership dues, gifts, donations, bequests, sponsorships, program fees, grants, and a modest
endowment.
Long-Range Plans
As the importance of environmental issues is realized, it will be necessary for organizations like
the Cope Environmental Center to inspire and challenge individuals and communities to achieve
ecologically sustainable lifestyles to secure a sustainable future for all life on earth. The longrange plans for the center include increasing the number and variety of educational programs,
demonstrations, and research opportunities available on the regional, state, and national level. To
accommodate significant growth in program participation, plans are being developed and funds
sought for a new education center to replace the existing facility.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 297

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

History
In 1948, Jim and Helen Cope purchased about 30 acres of farm land between Centerville and
Richmond and began planting a variety of trees, shrubs, and other plants. They pursued a
sustainable lifestyle which involved the use of alternative energy, energy conservation,
composting, and organic gardening. During their years of teaching, Jim at Earlham College and
Helen at Centerville Junior-Senior High School, the property was the site of many field trips.
Over the years, the collections of deciduous trees and conifers have matured and achieved
regional significance in size and diversity. Simultaneously, their knowledge and insight regarding
the many ways to conserve natural resources and live a sustainable lifestyle grew. In 1992, Jim
and Helen partnered with their friend Francis Parks, a dedicated botanist, horticulturist, and
conservationist, to create the Francis Parks Foundation and the Cope Environmental Center to
give permanent protection to this valuable piece of land and to teach others what they had
learned. In 1997, the Center tripled in size with the gift of 70 acres from Gertrude 'Lucky' Ward, a
retired biology professor at Earlham College. Lucky was dedicated to the conservation of natural
and cultural resources within the region. With the addition of another parcel of land in 1999, the
Center increased to its current size of 102 acres.
Audience
The Center staff works with children,
adults, families, students, educators,
and community groups both on-site
and through outreach programs.
Groups throughout the region utilize
the programs and facilities on a regular
basis. Public and private schools,
colleges, and universities use the
Center for guided hikes, research, and
custom-designed programs. On a daily
basis, casual visitors walk the trails,
enjoy the gardens, or view a
demonstration. The Center also
handles hundreds of telephone calls
Source: www.copeenvironmental.org
and personal inquiries concerning
animal and plant identification, local environmental concerns, sustainable living practices, and
other issues.

Strategies and Recommendations
E N 1. Incorporate an Environmental Planning Division to the Richmond City Planning
Department
The Environmental Planning Division would be charged with providing an environmentally
oriented review of all the development proposals which are brought before the Plan Commission,
Board of Zoning Appeals and the City of Richmond. This Division would provide project
management leadership on issues of environmental significance and lend support to the
evaluation and implementation of the City's regulations and policies, as they pertain to the
environment.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 298

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Environmental Planning staff could also write and administer grants for the evaluation of stream
and watershed water quality; prepared Brownfield site assessment grants on behalf of local land
owners and public agencies; participate in updating the City's Comprehensive Plan; drafting
changes to the City's Zoning Ordinances pertaining to the environment; and be responsible for
enforcing the environmental sections of the Zoning Ordinance.
E N 2. Commission an Environmental Quality Indicators Report for the City of Richmond
and the Contiguous 2 mile Fringe
The City of Richmond will commission a report to evaluate the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Richmond’s Energy Consumption
Waste Management
Solid Waste and Recycling
Hazardous Materials and Waste
Air Quality in Richmond
Water Quality and Quantity
Stream and River Water Quality
Lake and Reservoir Water Quality
Water Use and Treatment
Storm Water Runoff
Soils, Erosion and Siltation
Erosion Prevention and Control
Wildlife and Natural Areas and Botanical Resources
Wildlife
Urban Green space

E N 3. Promote Healthy Local Food Systems Through Information and Learning
Opportunities
Food is an essential ingredient in a healthy, sustainable community. The City of Richmond will
develop a Municipal Food Policy, which provides direction on increasing our safe and local food
supply, encouraging community gardens, supporting the farmers’ markets, reducing our
exposure to hazardous substances in food and improving the nutritional value of our food.
E N 4. Promote the Use of Green Building Technology in New Building Developments and
Building Reuse Strategies
• Green building technology will be promoted by the city of Richmond through
establishing an innovative building design review committee to advise builders on
energy-efficient design.
• The City will consider incentives for rewarding energy-efficient building design.
• The City will develop sustainable development guidelines for municipal facilities for
energy efficiency, low impact development and conservation landscape requirements.
Green Building Program
The first cost of a building represents only 6-8% of its total cost over its lifetime. 92% of a
building’s cost is devoted to its operation and maintenance. The cost of people working inside
that building is between 100 and 150 times that of the building itself. If buildings can be made
more energy efficient, easier to operate and maintain, the keep people healthier and more
productive and enormous amounts of money can be saved, enough to pay for the cost of the
building many times over.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 299

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Sustainable design, high performance buildings are those that, through their siting, orientation,
design, construction, and operation, are highly energy efficient, have lower operating costs, are
better for the environment in broad and specific terms, and promote whole health for their users
and occupants with measurable results.
Climate sensitive design using available technologies in the US could cut total energy use by 60%
in commercial buildings, reduce material and water use, reduce waste and save owners,
companies and the government billions of dollars every year in maintenance and operating
costs, assessments, fees and taxes.

Program Resources
LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)
LEED provides certification and education on green building techniques.
The LEED Green Building Rating SystemR is a voluntary, consensus-based national standard for
developing high-performance, sustainable buildings. Members of the U.S. Green Building
Council representing all segments of the building industry developed LEED and continue to
contribute to its evolution.
LEED was created to: define "green building" by establishing a common standard of
measurement; promote integrated, whole-building design practices; recognize environmental
leadership in the building industry; stimulate green competition; raise consumer awareness of
green building benefits; and transform the building market.(Information from the U.S. Green
Building Council website, www.usgbc.org). Members of the U.S. Green Building Council
representing all segments of the building industry developed LEED and continue to contribute to
its evolution. LEED standards are currently available or under development for:
•
•
•
•
•
•

New commercial construction and major renovation projects (LEED-NC)
Existing building operations (LEED-EB)
Commercial interiors projects (LEED-CI)
Core and shell projects (LEED-CS)
Homes (LEED-H)
Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND)

LEED was created to:
1.

Define "green building" by establishing a common standard of measurement

2. Promote integrated, whole-building design practices
3. Recognize environmental leadership in the building industry
4. Stimulate green competition
5. Raise consumer awareness of green building benefits
6. Transform the building market

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 300

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

LEED provides a complete framework for assessing building performance and meeting
sustainability goals. Based on well-founded scientific standards, LEED emphasizes state of the
art strategies for sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials
selection and indoor environmental quality. LEED recognizes achievements and promotes
expertise in green building through a comprehensive system offering project certification,
professional accreditation, training and practical resources.

Resources and Funding Opportunities for a Sustainable Community
ACHP Historic Preservation Funding
The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) has created a new online guide that
outlines the range of historic preservation funding options that are currently available.
Active Living by Design/ The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Recognizing the important role of physical activity in promoting healthier lifestyles, Active
Living by Design and The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) offers partnerships across
the United States to increase active living, a way of life that integrates physical activity into daily
routines. Each partnership will receive a $200,000 grant to address community design, land use,
transportation, architecture, trails, parks and other issues that influence healthier lifestyles.
AIA Sustainable Design Assessment Program
The AIA Center for Communities by Design, with the support of the AIA Committee on the
Environment (COTE), the new SDAT focuses on sustainability as the key to quality, balance, and
long-term viability.
Alcan Prize for Sustainability
The Alcan Prize for Sustainability identifies and recognizes not-for-profit, civil society and nongovernmental organizations for their contributions to economic, environmental and/or social
sustainability.
Brownfields Assessment Revolving Loan Fund and Cleanup Grants
The US Environmental Protection Agency solicits applications for its Brownfields Assessment
Revolving Loan Fund and Cleanup Grants. Assessment grant funds of up to $200,000 (up to
$350,000 with waiver) may be used to inventory, characterize, assess and conduct planning and
community involvement efforts related to brownfields.
Brownfields Federal Programs Guide
There are nearly two dozen federal programs that can help communities in one way or another to
assess, cleanup and reuse Brownfields. Brownfields Federal Programs Guide examines in
alphabetical order the resources available in other departments and agencies which could be
applied in Brownfields situations. This website from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
contains information on Brownfields funding for loans, job training, technical assistance, and
other items related to brownfield remediation and management.
http://www.epa.gov/brownfields/pg
Brownfields Funding Indiana
The Indiana Department of Commerce (IDOC) offers a brownfields redevelopment program
funded through federal Community Development Block Grants (CDBG).

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 301

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Building Communities and Entrepreneurs
The Citigroup Foundation's Building Communities and Entrepreneurs program supports
community development corporations, intermediary organizations and community development
financial institutions that focus on affordable housing, economic development, welfare-to-work
initiatives, community infrastructure improvements, and environmentally sustainable growth to
local economies.
Community Toolbox for Children’s Environmental Health
Guided by a board comprised primarily of grassroots leaders, Community Toolbox supports
community-based initiatives to protect children from environmental health hazards.
Community Forestry Projects
Community Forestry Projects grants are awarded in the categories of Promotion of Livable
Communities through Urban and Community Forestry, Creative and Innovative Urban and
Community Forestry Research and Technology Development is available at
http://www.treelink.org/nucfac
Due Diligence Grants
The Environmental Due Diligence Pilot Program seeks communities that are proactively
pursuing economic development opportunities. The EDD Program will conduct Phase I
Environmental Assessments on a property or multiple properties within selected communities.
Alternatively, area-wide assessments could be conducted for a main street, industrial district,
business park, or other geographic area. The purchase, use, or redevelopment of buildings and
commercial sites by business prospects are dependent on those properties being clear of
environmental liability issues. Similar concerns by lenders have made environmental due
diligence a necessity in today’s real estate market. Identifying environmental issues early can
enable communities to craft solutions before these issues become deal-breakers.
Environmental Education Grants
The Grant Program sponsored by EPA’s Office of Environmental Education supports
environmental education projects that enhance the public’s awareness, knowledge, and skills to
help people make informed decisions that affect environmental quality.
Environmental Justice Grants
The U.S. EPA's Office of Environmental Justice offers grants designed to address environmental
justice issues. Examples include grants to community-based organizations that are working on
or planning to work on projects to address local environmental and/or public health concerns,
and grants to community groups with projects that address environmental justice issues.
Environmental Justice Small Grants Program
The Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Environmental Justice (OEJ) established the
Environmental Justice Small Grants Program in FY 1994. The purpose of this grant program is to
provide financial assistance that will support and empower community-based organizations that
are working on local solutions to local environmental and/or public health problems.
Environmental Program Grants
The Laura Jane Musser Fund encourages communities whether represented by local
governments, state agencies or grassroots nonprofit organizations to use a consensus-based
approach to environmental decision-making.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 302

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Five Star Restoration Challenge Grants
The National Association of Counties, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, and the
Wildlife Habitat Council, in cooperation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
the Community-Based Restoration Program within NOAA Fisheries, and other sponsors (e.g.,
Office of Surface Mining), solicit applications under the Five Star Restoration Challenge Grants
Program.The Five Star Restoration Challenge Program brings together students, conservation
corps, other youth groups, citizen groups, corporations, landowners and government agencies to
provide environmental education and training through projects that restore wetlands and
streams.
Funding Search Database
The Red Lodge Clearinghouse Funding Search resource is a searchable database of funding
sources. Search options include by State, Interest, Type, or Funder, with subcategories for most
options.
Funding Sources - Trails and Greenways
National Trails Training Partnership has added a list of funding sources for trails and greenways
proponents to the resources and archives section of its website.
Getty Foundation
Getty Foundation grants support and assist in cultural, arts, and heritage development and can
also be sources of preservation funding. One source with information on these organizations is
www.preservenet.cornell.edu/econ.html.
Green Building Initiative
The Kresge Foundation has announced a Green Building Initiative to encourage environmentally
sustainable nonprofit organizations.
Green Building Tax Credits
The Apollo Alliance offers a summary of green building tax credit programs and how they have
been implemented in state governments. This discussion includes model language for a good
general Green Building tax credit bill, and includes a copy of the State of New Jersey's legislation
allowing for additional tax credits for developments that adhere to other smart growth
principles, such as redeveloping brownfields, locating near public transit, and limiting land use
for parking.
Green Communities
Green Communities is a five-year, $550 million fund to build more than 8,500 homes across the
country that provides significant health, economic and environmental benefits to low-income
families and communities.
Green Communities Grants
A minimum of $1 million in grant funds is available to participants in the Green Communities
Initiative (GCI) through an application process that is published on The Enterprise Foundation’s
website. The purpose of the Green Communities Program is to help one community at a time to
achieve goals for a healthier, happier and more sustainable future, a future that honors the open
spaces people value and dignifies spaces in which people live, work and play.
Midwest Assistance Program Loan Fund
The Midwest Assistance Program is providing low-cost, short and intermediate term loans for
community water and wastewater projects through its Community Revolving Loan Fund.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 303

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Million Solar Roofs Grants
DOE's National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) Million Solar Roofs Initiative (MSRI)
Small Grant Program for State and Local MSR Partnerships. Awards under this announcement
will be grants with a term of no more than three years.
Nathan Cummings Foundation
The Nathan Cummings Foundation offers the Environment Program, a funding opportunity that
seeks to address the root causes of environmental degradation.
National 4-H Council Community Tree Planting Grants
The National 4-H Council offers grants at the community, county, and state level for young
people and adults to take action on issues critical to their lives, their families, and their
communities. Grant recipients are expected to take the lead in the design of the project, the
proposal writing process, implementation, and evaluation of funded projects.
National Trails Fund
National Trails Fund grants help give local organizations the resources they need to secure
access, volunteers, tools and materials to protect America’s cherished public trails.
Native Plant Conservation Initiative
The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, in partnership with the Plant Conservation Alliance,
offers the Native Plant Conservation Initiative (NPCI). Grants of federal dollars are provided to
non-profit organizations and agencies at all levels of government to promote the conservation of
native plants.
Preservation of Historic Places and Landmarks
The National Trust for Historic Preservation is offering grants through the Johanna Favrot Fund
for Historic Preservation for projects that contribute to the preservation or the recapture of an
authentic sense of place. To learn more, visit www.nthp.org/help/grants.html. For contact
information on statewide preservation non-profits, access the Statewide Groups information at
www.nationaltrust.org/state_and_local/partner_organizations.asp.
Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program
The U.S. National Park Service (NPS) offers this website on how to apply for rivers and trails
conservation assistance.
Rockefeller Brothers Fund
The Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF) sustainable development grant making supports
environmental stewardship that is ecologically based, economically sound, socially just,
culturally appropriate, and consistent with intergenerational equity. The Fund encourages
government, business, and civil society to work collaboratively on environmental conservation
and to make it an integral part of all development planning and activity.
RTC's Trails Funding Guide
The Rails-to-Trails Conservancy’s (RTC's) Trails and Greenways Funding Guide is a searchable
database containing information about a variety of federal, state and private funding sources for
trails and greenways.

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 304

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSERVATION

Small Scale Farmers Initiative
The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), an agency of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, will provide up to $6 million for a new Small-Scale/Limited Resource Farmers
Initiative to help small farmers implement good conservation practices on their land.
Smart Growth Funding Resource Guide
This resource guide is divided into three sections: (1) Funding Categories and Grants Programs;
(2) Information on Other Funding Directories; and (3) Tips on the Successful Procurement of
Grant Monies.
The Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning
Concerns about sprawl, traffic congestion, and loss of open space have risen to the top of
community concerns. In response, universities and colleges are beginning to use their abilities to
address growth issues and provide innovative solutions for communities.
US EPA State Innovation Grant
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) Office of Policy, Economics and Innovation
is requesting proposals for a third round of projects to be funded under its State Innovation
Grant Program.
USEPA Children’s Health Protection Grants
The U.S. EPA awards to five communities to fund locally based projects that improve and create
healthy environments for children. These grants represent the most innovative examples of
community development and promotion that link sustainable growth policies with protecting
children's health.
Wetlands Protection Grants
The US EPA's Wetland Program Development Grants (WPDGs) provide eligible applicants an
opportunity to conduct projects that promote the coordination and acceleration of research,
investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes,
effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and elimination of water pollution.

F. Natural Resources Maps
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

Slope Analysis Quadrant 1
Slope Analysis Quadrant 2
Slope Analysis Quadrant 4
Slope Analysis Quadrant 5
Topography
Floodplains
Soils
Hydric Soils
Natural Features Quadrant 1
Natural Features Quadrant 2
Natural Features Quadrant4
Natural Features Quadrant 5
Watersheds

APRIL 2006 | RICHMOND, INDIANA | 305



 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 



1HLJKERUKRRG
3UHVHUYDWLRQ
3ODQQLQJ
3UHSDUHGIRUWKH

3UHVHUYDWLRQ&RPPLVVLRQ

&LW\RI5LFKPRQG,QGLDQD
'HFHPEHU

3UHSDUHGE\

+LVWRULF3UHVHUYDWLRQ'HVLJQ6WXGLR
*UDGXDWH3URJUDPLQ+LVWRULF3UHVHUYDWLRQ
'HSDUWPHQWRI$UFKLWHFWXUH
&ROOHJHRI$UFKLWHFWXUHDQG3ODQQLQJ
%DOO6WDWH8QLYHUVLW\

Page i
Acknowledgements

$FNQRZOHGJHPHQWV
This study of Neighborhood Preservation Planning for Richmond Indiana was completed
by graduate students in the Department of Architecture at Ball State University during the
Fall 2002 academic term. The work was part of the Historic Preservation Study course
required for the Master of Science in Historic Preservation degree. Students
participating in the course in their second year of this two-year graduate degree program.
The students are Russ Archer, Victoria Redstone, Emily Mack, Josh Smith, Diane
Tuinstra, and Allie Wenzle.
Jonathan C. Spodek, AIA, NCARB, assistant professor of Architecture directed the
project in coordination with the City of Richmond Historic Preservation Commission.
The study could not have been completed without the partnership and input of Scott
Zimmerman of Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana and Charlie Ball of the Wayne
County Foundation.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page ii
Table of Contents

7DEOHRI&RQWHQWV
Section 1:

Executive Summary ……………………………………………… 1

Section 2:

Historic Neighborhood Context…………………………………… 5
Richmond’s Historic Context
Richmond’s Historic Neighborhoods

Section 3:

Preservation Context in Richmond………………………………… 18
What is a Preservation Plan?
The Legal Basis for Preservation
How does Preservation fit into the Visioning Process?
Preservation Efforts in Richmond & Wayne Co.

Section 4:

Role of the Historic Preservation Commission……………………..23

Section 5:

Role of the Neighborhood…………………………………………..25

Section 6:

Goals – Objectives – Action Items………………………………… 26
For the Historic Preservation Commission
For the Neighborhood Association

Section 7:

Appendices………………………………………………………….39
Appendix A: Richmond Contacts
Appendix B: Preservation Organizations
Appendix C: Certified Local Government Information
Appendix D: Tax Credit and Grant Programs
Appendix E: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
Appendix F: Preservation Briefs Introduction
Appendix G: National Register Information


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 1
Executive Summary

([HFXWLYH6XPPDU\
The Richmond Neighborhood Preservation Plan is a document that delineates
responsibilities and preservation goals and objectives to help navigate Richmond’s
neighborhoods through their preservation efforts. The plan includes information on the
history and development of Richmond’s neighborhoods and a preservation context
statement that explains the importance of preservation planning. A series of goals,
objectives, and actions compliments a significant portion of the study. The plan also
describes the varying roles that both organizations should play within Richmond’s
neighborhood preservation planning. Finally, the appendix includes valuable resource
material and proper contact information to aid in the search for preservation related
recommendations and communications.

Methodology
The planning team developed this plan through a structure of assessment, data gathering,
evaluation, and community input.
1)

The planning team familiarized itself with Richmond’s historic
neighborhoods:
Conducted a visual survey of the community by driving and
walking through the historic neighborhoods. Made notes of
continuing themes and building types found within the varying
neighborhoods.

2)

Reviewed existing literature, reports, maps, and information:
Collected and reviewed resource material regarding Richmond’s
historic neighborhoods. Resource materials included; maps, books,
building surveys, and previous case studies.

3)

Reviewed similar neighborhood and city preservation plans:
Evaluated existing preservation plans from other communities to
become familiar with planning strategies and procedures. Assessed
the strengths and weaknesses of the plans reviewed.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 2
Executive Summary

4)

Conducted a Richmond community meeting:
Interested citizens participated in a community forum that included
gathering viewpoints, input, and brain storming activities that helped
define the nature of the neighborhood preservation planning
priorities in Richmond.

5)

Evaluating Data and Input to Establish Goals and Objectives.
Developed the goal areas and priorities for Richmond’s
Neighborhood Preservation Plan by reviewing all research material
collected and input from the community forum. The planning team
then developed a list of Goals, Objectives, and Actions

Roles of the Historic Preservation Commission
In order for neighborhood preservation planning to be successful, there must be strong
leadership at the city level. Since 2000, the City of Richmond has in place a mechanism
to facilitate this success in the Historic Preservation Commission. The primary goals of
the commission are defined in the Historic Preservation Ordinance and are worded as
follows:
•

“To promote the educational, cultural, and general welfare of the citizens
of Richmond.”

•

“Ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and development of the
municipality.”

•

“Maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of having
distinctiveness destroyed.”

•

“Enhance property values and attract new residents.”

•

“Ensure the viability of the traditional Uptown area.”

•

“Enhance tourism within the City of Richmond.”


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 3
Executive Summary

Roles of the Neighborhood Associations
Historic preservation efforts are supported and promoted by all people at the federal,
state, local, or neighborhood level. Local residents, usually through neighborhood
associations, can have a profound impact on the direction of these efforts. A well
organized and established neighborhood association can work closely with the Historic
Preservation Commission to help fulfill the neighborhood preservation goals. It is this
cooperation that will ensure success of a neighborhood preservation plan. However,
neighborhood preservation is a grass roots effort and its success is critically reliant on the
residents and property owners.

Goals, Objectives, and Actions of Neighborhood Associations and the Historic
Preservation Commission
The culmination of the planning teams efforts resulted in five goal areas that were
designed to ensure a successful neighborhood preservation planning program. These goal
areas are based on the input gathered during the community forum. Within each of the
goal areas, goals for both the Historic Preservation Commission and the Neighborhood
have been identified. It is important that both work together to ensure the success of any
neighborhood preservation initiative.
1.

2.

Advice/Direction
•

Historic Preservation Commission
To create or demonstrate how an established neighborhood
association can provide advice and direction to improve the overall
quality and appearance of a historic neighborhood.

•

Neighborhood Association
To provide grass roots advice to residents and direction for
preservation in Richmond.

Education
•

Historic Preservation Commission
To educate the neighborhood residents of the value and importance
of Richmond’s historic neighborhoods.

•

Neighborhood Association
To educate residents and property owners about preservation and
the Preservation Commission’s activities.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 4
Executive Summary

3.

4.

5.

Protection
•

Historic Preservation Commission
To preserve and protect the historic resources of Richmond
neighborhoods including buildings, sites, and landscapes.

•

Neighborhood Association
To maintain Richmond’s established neighborhoods in order to
preserve their distinctiveness.

Promotion
•

Historic Preservation Commission
To promote, endorse, and advertise Richmond’s historic resources
and preservation activities.

•

Neighborhood Association
To promote the historic neighborhood/district as an important local
resource.

Communications/Partnerships
•

Neighborhood Association
To develop communication and partnerships with established
community and preservation-related organizations.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 5
Historic Neighborhood Context

+LVWRULF1HLJKERUKRRG&RQWH[W
Richmond’s Historic Context
The Richmond area was a favorite fishing and hunting ground for the Delaware and
Miami Indians who populated east central Indiana. Established trails led from the
Richmond area to their villages near Muncie and to the north and east. Westward
expansion by European-Americans and the creation of the Northwest Territory opened
the area to extensive settlement by European-Americans and the Indians reluctantly gave
up the territory in the Greenville Treaty of 1795.1
Richmond’s first non-Native settlers were mainly Quakers from Guilford County, North
Carolina. Attracted by the promise of inexpensive land and the ban on slavery in the
Northwest Territory, Quaker families left for Indiana. In 1806, three leading families,
Hoover, Smith and Cox, staked claims on the Whitewater River; others soon followed.
By 1810, the Whitewater settlement had enough taxpayers to qualify as a county and
Wayne County was created by an act of the Territorial Legislature. In order to sell of
land more quickly, John Smith hired David Hoover to survey his tract and create lots.
The plat was entered as Smithville. In 1818 Jeremiah Cox platen part of his quarter
section and began selling off lots. A new name was selected for the town: the Town of
Richmond.
Richmond operated under its 1818 Town Charter until 1834, when the state legislature
granted the community a Borough Charter. Richmond was charted as a city in 1840 and
by then had begun to stabilize its industry and marketing areas.
Although Centerville had been made the county seat of Wayne County in 1816, it lacked
a real source of waterpower. Because Richmond was located on the Whitewater River,
lumber and grain processors located in or near Richmond. By 1837, Richmond was a
community of 300 homes. In 1840, the town’s population was 2,070. Richmond’s steady
growth in the 1830s was directly related to the opening of the National Road.
The Federal government graded and partially paved a two-lane road through Maryland,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Ohio; the National Road had reached the Indiana state line
by 1833. The first town to be surveyed for the right-of-way inside Indiana was
Richmond, and Richmond became the primary stopping point for westbound traffic until
1

Information for the Richmond history section was obtained from “Historical Development Community
Renewal Program Richmond, Indiana R-81 (CR)”, prepared by City Planning Associates, Inc., in October,
1969.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 6
Historic Neighborhood Context

the road was completed to Indianapolis in 1840. Since cattle, hogs, and sheep were
commonly driven to market in the 1830s and 40s, the National Road became a primary
drovers’ route, with Richmond serving as a staging area for drovers throughout eastern
Indiana. Daily stagecoaches brought regular news to the town and gave Richmond’s
young industries a way in which to ship their products to other markets.
In the early 1800s, Richmond’s commercial area was the three blocks of Main Street
between 2nd and 5th Streets. Substantial rows of semi-detached brick town houses lined
the river to the south of Main Street since Richmond’s residential district was confined to
the area between present day 2nd and 6th Streets, bounded by South A and South E
Streets.
The waterpower provided by the Whitewater River made Richmond a natural site for
industries requiring mechanical power in the pre-steam era. Peter Harter opened a
woolen mill along the river in 1827. Grist millers also operated along the river. Charles
Starr’s cotton mill began operations in 1831. Thornburg, Hayes & Company built a
foundry in 1836. William Bancroft opened a second woolen mill in 1836.
From the 1840s until railroads reduced its importance, the National Road carried
immigrants west into Illinois and beyond the Mississippi River. Because the National
Road was located on Richmond’s Main Street, a commercial district of taverns, shops,
and stores developed along both sides of the road from the riverfront to present-day
Seventh Street. However, by 1847, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad had pushed through
to Wheeling, West Virginia, and the railroad, combined with steamboats on the Ohio
River, took commerce away from the National Road. As a result, Richmond saw a period
of decline until the Richmond and New Castle Railroad was completed through
Richmond in 1853. Once more, industry and commercial growth was stimulated by
transportation, and Richmond became an important producer of farm machinery.
Following the 1848 revolutions in Germany, many Germans emigrated to the United
States. Many located around Cincinnati. The opening of the Richmond and New Castle
Railroad to Cincinnati brought many of the German immigrants to Richmond. These
new residents of Richmond settled in the old residential area south of Main Street as the
previous occupants moved northeast to newer areas of Richmond.
By 1870, Richmond was Indiana’s eighth largest city. The total population was 9,445
and incorporated a variety of ethnic backgrounds, including significant minority groups
of Irish, African-Americans, and Germans. In 1873, the county seat was transferred from
Centerville to Richmond. By 1874, Richmond had developed west over the Whitewater
River into the area surrounding Earlham College. New homes went up rapidly in the
south and the east. Industry expanded in the post-Civil War period. The Garr, Scott and
Company plant sold threshing machines worldwide. Alpheus Test made steam engines
and Richard Sedgwich opened a woven wire fence plant. James Starr’s piano
manufacturing company employed well-trained German cabinetmakers and finishers.

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 7
Historic Neighborhood Context

Francis W. Robinson’s foundry began making threshing machines, selling them to
western farmers who required such machinery to make planting large acreages possible.
H.H. Dille and Elwood McGuire manufactured one of the first practical hand reel-type
lawn mowers in the United States. When their business became successful, other
businessmen began manufacturing lawn mowers in Richmond and Richmond became the
lawn mower capital of the world, if the civic boosters are to be believed. Richmond also
manufactured caskets. Steam power allowed new industries to locate away from the
river, close to railroad lines. By 1880 Richmond’s population had grown to 12,742.
During the early part of the twentieth-century, gasoline-powered combines made the
steam-powered machines manufactured in Richmond obsolete. Gaar, Scott and
Company’s products went off the market and Swayne, Robinson, and Company
abandoned its farm implement line.
The Great Depression had an effect on the housing stock in Richmond. There was very
little new construction. Repairs often were not made to older structures; the residential
neighborhoods of Old Richmond and the North End began to deteriorate rapidly. World
War II brought industry and expansion back to Richmond. The Crosly Refrigerator
Plant, which had opened in 1937, was converted to war word. ALCOA opened new
production facilities. War workers came from Kentucky and Tennessee, as well as from
surrounding rural areas. New construction of housing was not possible because of
wartime material shortages. After the war, new houses were built in the surrounding
areas while old houses were allowed to deteriorate. It was cheaper and less time
consuming to build new than to conserve the old. In the 1940s and 1950s, a number of
suburban areas were annexed by the City of Richmond.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 8
Historic Neighborhood Context

Richmond’s Historic Neighborhoods

Old Richmond Neighborhood
The Old Richmond Neighborhood is bounded on west by C&O Railroad, on east by
South 11th Street, on North by South A Street, and on the south by the centerline of an
alley south of South E Street. The neighborhood contains the area originally platted in
1816 along with early additions made before 1855. The area is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places.2 Old Richmond was originally occupied by Friends and later
by Germans and free African-Americans.
Prior to 1840 Richmond was principally what is the Old Richmond Historic District.
After 1837, as Richmond began to grow due to the National Road, Old Richmond’s
original Irish and English Quaker inhabitants moved northeast to newer areas of
Richmond, turning over their early townhouses and cottages to German immigrants and
free African-Americans. The Richmond black community early organized a significant

2

Information for the neighborhoods was taken from the Wayne County Interim Report, published by
Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana in 2001, and from National Register of Historic Places
nomination forms for the neighborhoods.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 9
Historic Neighborhood Context

center for educating freed Blacks and for harboring runaway slaves, the Bethel A.M.E.
Church.
The main commercial district of Richmond was South 4th and 5th Streets. South 4th Street
was Richmond’s main commercial artery until 1837; before the National Road bridge
was completed in 1837, the National Road ran along part of South 4th Street. These
streets are lines with federal and Greek Revival town houses, interspersed with later early
Victorian houses. The 200 block of South 4th Street contains several fine late-19thcentury homes built by wealth German-Americans.
South 2nd, 3rd, and 6th Streets were mainly residential neighborhoods. South 7th, 8th, and
9th Streets were the heart of Richmond’s free African-American community before the
Civil War. The neighborhood consists of freestanding town houses and one and one-half
story cottages o f federal and Grecian style.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 10
Historic Neighborhood Context

Starr Neighborhood
The Starr Neighborhood is bounded by North A Street on the south, North E Street on the
north, North 10th Street on the on the west, and North 16th Street on the east. The land
comprising the Starr neighborhood was purchased from Jeremiah Cox by Charles and
Elizabeth Starr, who settled in Richmond in 1825. The Starr family was influential in
Richmond’s early development and later owned Starr Piano. The Starr neighborhood is
and always has been a residential neighborhood occupied by well to do Quakers and
other wealthy citizens. In the nineteenth century, many residents of the Starr
neighborhood were leaders in Richmond businesses and industries. The Starr
neighborhood contains examples of residential architecture in the Greek Revival,
Italianate, Queen Anne, Second Empire, and Free Classic styles, among others. Because
many of the original homeowners were members of the Society of Friends, they did not
build ostentatious homes. The houses in the neighborhood emphasize classical balance
and harmony of composition.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 11
Historic Neighborhood Context

Glen Miller Park Neighborhood

The Glen Miller Park neighborhood was listed on the National Register of Historic Places
in 1986. The neighborhood includes East Main Street between 18th and 30th Streets,
along with 175 acres of Glen Miller Park located to the north of Main Street. East Main
Street, or the National Road, is a major entrance into Richmond; the Glen Miller Park
neighborhood provides a broad, tree-lined residential thoroughfare into the city. The area
developed over time due to the traffic along the National Road, the park development,
and the continued attraction of Main Street after the turn of the century.
Glen Miller Park developed at the same time as the houses along East Main Street. The
park was bought by the city in 1885. John Thorpe, chief of floriculture at the World’s
Columbian Exposition was hired and new features were added to the park, including iron
bridges and electric lights. A golf course was opened in 1923. The Richmond Garden
Club planted a rose garden next to the Charles House in the park. The Madonna of the
Trail statue was one of twelve placed across the nation, six of which were on the National
Road.
As the park developed, the area attracted prominent Richmond residents. The built larger
and more elaborate houses than were already in the area. After 1910, fewer large and
ornate houses were built; instead more modest, but well-designed, houses were built
during the 1910s and 1920s.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 12
Historic Neighborhood Context

Starr Parkside Neighborhood
Bounded by the railroad tracks in the north, Main Street on the south, North 24th Street in
the west, and 17th Street in the east, the Starr Parkside Neighborhood does not include
Glen Miller Park. The area consists of working-class homes from the late 19th and early
20th centuries. The most prevalent styles are Italianate, Queen Anne, American
foursquare, and Craftsman/bungalow. Many of the homes have recognizable architectural
details, but are not as elaborate as the homes in the nearby Starr neighborhood.
In general, houses along 17th, 18th, and 19th Streets are older than those on 20th through
24th Streets. Many houses appear to have been constructed by the same builder. The
northeastern part of the neighborhood was offered for sale as the Grand Boulevard
Subdivision in 1913, but the homes there are not drastically different in style or scale
from those located elsewhere in the neighborhood.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 13
Historic Neighborhood Context

Richmond Southside Neighborhood

The Southside Neighborhood is located between the Old Richmond Historic District and
the Reeveston Place Historic District. Made up of the neighborhoods known locally as
the East Main Street Neighborhood and the Vaile Neighborhood, it includes South 11th
through 15th Streets from East Main Street to South E Street, and South 16th through 18th
Streets from East Main Street to South B Street. Most of the buildings in the Southside
neighborhood are late Victorian and early 20th century residences, dating from around
1870 to 1920. The area contains a variety of housing types, including single-family
residences, double houses, row houses, and apartment buildings. Queen Anne style
residences are commonly found in the district, many featuring Eastlake details. Other
prevalent styles in the district include Free Classic, Italianate, and American foursquare.
Although the Southside neighborhood is comprised of a variety of styles, the buildings
form a cohesive historic district illustrating residential development from the late
nineteenth century into the early twentieth century, with little interruption from
commercial structures.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 14
Historic Neighborhood Context

Reeveston Place Neighborhood

Bounded on the north by South B Street, on the South by South E Street, and on the west
by South 16th Street and the east by South 23rd Street. Well-known Richmond
businessman Mark E. Reeves owned the land from 1853 to 1883. In 1867 Reeves built a
Second Empire house for his family. The oldest house in the neighborhood is the Joseph
Plummer House, built by the previous owner of the land. After the death of Reeves’
widow in 1911, developers bought the land.
Like other early 20th-century American suburbs, Reeveston Place experienced a great
deal of building activity after both World Wars. The growing popularity of the
automobile also influenced the development of the neighborhood. Building activity
occurred in the neighborhood for nearly a half a century, resulting in an eclectic mix of
architectural styles.
One of the most important features of Reeveston Place is its street plan of wide
boulevards and planted medians. The area has an eclectic mixture of architectural styles
representing the first half of the twentieth century. Because the neighborhood was an
area for the upper-middle class and the upper class residents of Richmond, a number of
the houses were architect designed.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 15
Historic Neighborhood Context

Richmond Bungalow/Cottage Neighborhood
This neighborhood includes 14th and 15th Streets between South E Street and South H
Street, and the west side of 16th Street between South E and South F Streets. The area is
predominantly composed of bungalow and cottage types and appears to be a working
class neighborhood of smaller homes. Many houses in this district appear to be from
Sears or other catalog companies. Most of the houses date between the late 1920s and the
1940s. The oldest house dates to around 1912 while the most recent was built around
1960.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 16
Historic Neighborhood Context

Richmond Railroad Station District

The Richmond Railroad Station District is bounded by the Norfolk and Southern railroad
track on the north, North 10th Street in the east, Elm Place and North D Street in the south
and Ft. Wayne Avenue on the west. It was listed on the National Register of Historic
Places in 1987. The district is a collection of late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century
commercial and industrial buildings. The area developed as a direct result of the location
of the railroad station that was located north of Richmond’s downtown area. The
businesses in the area were instrumental in the economic development of the region.
Two of the older buildings still standing were built in the 1860s. A railroad station was
constructed in 1872 and resulted in a rush of construction. Another surge of construction
took place in the 1890s and included the Richardsonian Romanesque style Fire
Department Hose House #1.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Station was constructed in 1902 from a design created by the
office of Daniel Burnham. Railroad activity peaked early in the twentieth century.
The Richmond Railroad Station District has the largest concentration of late nineteenthand early twentieth-century commercial buildings outside of Main Street. The district’s
architecture exhibits a wide variety of styles and represents the influence of transportation
on the development of Richmond.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 17
Historic Neighborhood Context

Richmond Downtown District

The Richmond Downtown District is comprised of three blocks on both sides of Main
Street in the center of the city, going east from North 7th Street. It is entirely a
commercial district and most of the buildings were built between 1870 and 1910.
The survey undertaken for the National Road in 1828 placed the new highway down
Richmond’s Main Street. It was an important factor in the development of Richmond,
influencing both the level and direction of growth. U.S. 40 and U.S. 27 intersect at East
Main Street and North Ninth Street and continue to bring traffic into Richmond’s
downtown.
The 1968 explosions damaged part of Richmond’s original downtown area and leveled
many buildings. The remaining historic downtown area is especially important because it
retains a high degree of historic integrity and serves as a visual reminder of what the rest
of the downtown was like before the tragedy and reconstruction.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 18
Richmond’s Preservation Context

5LFKPRQG·V3UHVHUYDWLRQ&RQWH[W
What is a Preservation Plan?
A Preservation Plan is a document that provides the information necessary for
maintaining and preserving the cultural and historical resources in a city, town,
neighborhood, district, or site. The Preservation Planning process should include three
major actions. The first of these is an inventory of existing conditions and future
projections. Next, a statement of needs and goals should be established and lastly, a
strategy should be formulated with a time frame that will guide the implementation of
these needs and goals.
As a part of the requirements of the Historic Preservation Studio class at Ball State
University, graduate students worked to develop a study for neighborhood preservation
planning for the Richmond Historic Preservation Commission. The city contact was
Charlie Ball, Director of the Wayne County Foundation and President of the Historic
Preservation Commission. The inventory that was used for this plan was the Wayne
County Interim Report. This document defined the boundaries for Richmond’s historic
districts and allowed us to identify concentrations of resources that needed to be
considered in the future. A two-fold process formulated the needs and goals section of
the plan. A community forum was organized and held by the students that allowed for an
understanding of the concerns of the community members. In addition to this, the
students reviewed literature to get a sense of the history of the community, as well as
preservation plans from other communities as a reference tool.
Preservation planning often involves a wide range of individuals, from professional
planners to community members. A major part of the preservation plan is centered on
historic resources including buildings, neighborhoods, and landscapes. These historic
resources give the community a sense of place, often offering positive features that are
attractive to both those who live in the neighborhood, and outsiders.
There are a variety of reasons for adopting a preservation plan, dependant on the needs of
the community. One of the main reasons is to define and state the goals of historic
preservation in the community. This will help property owners be aware of the issues,
educate the public, and help to guide future preservation efforts. Another major reason
for creating a preservation plan is to comply with current zoning or planning laws. This
will in turn help to create a legal basis for preservation. A final reason for a preservation
plan is to encourage development in the form of tourism, city growth, or further
protection of the resources.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 19
Richmond’s Preservation Context

Preservation plans should include ten different elements. This will allow the
neighborhood and the Historic Preservation Commission to thoroughly understand the
issues and to be able to implement the strategies with more ease. Standard elements of a
preservation plan were included in the preservation plan created for Richmond. These
elements are as follows:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Statement of Goals
Definition of Historic Character
“Preservation Context” Summary of past and Current Preservation Efforts
Historic Resources Survey
Explanation for Legal basis for Historic Preservation
Coordinating Preservation with Zoning, Land-use, and Growth Management
Defining Public Sector Responsibilities
Incentives for Historic Preservation
Relationship Between Preservation and Education
An Agenda for Future Action

Legal basis for preservation plan
State zoning or planning enabling legislation mandates that preservation planning be
addressed as a component of comprehensive city plans. A preservation plan is a
necessary component, which clearly states the goals of historic preservation in the
community. Preservation plans may also be used as a legal basis for a variety of actions,
which may include but are not limited to:
1) the adoption of a new historic preservation ordinance;
2) to strengthen the legal basis for an existing preservation ordinance;
3) to provide interim protection of historic resources while steps are taken to adopt a
formal preservation ordinance.
In Richmond, the City Council adopted Chapter 148 to the City of Richmond Code on
July 10th, 2000. This chapter, commonly referred to as the Preservation Ordinance,
formally established the Richmond Historic Preservation Commission and made four
important declarations.
1) It declared that the research, protection, maintenance, rehabilitation,
reconstruction, or development of historic districts is in the public interest.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 20
Richmond’s Preservation Context

2) It declared the intent of the ordinance is to provide a means to promote the
cultural, economic, and general welfare of the public through the preservation and
protection of structures and areas of historic and cultural interest.
3) It declared the intent of the ordinance to implement a comprehensive program of
historic preservation by the appointment of a Historic Preservation Commission
and by the establishment of an historic district or districts.
4) It declared the intent to respect rights of property owners.
Throughout this plan there are reference to this Preservation Ordinance. A complete
copy may be obtained from the City of Richmond, Indiana.

How does Preservation fit in with the
Wayne County Visioning Process?
In February and March of 2002, The Wayne County Foundation organized a visioning
process, which involved input from over 1100 citizens of Wayne County. The outcome
of this process was the development of theme statements—each with a set of focus areas
—that represent the direction in which Wayne County wishes to commence for the
future. Preservation of historic neighborhoods interrelates with several of these theme
statements.
Theme Statement:
“Wayne County: its people, organizations, communities, and governments will be
connected through coordination, collaboration, and communication.”
Preservation of historic neighborhoods falls within the focus areas of “Using arts
& culture/fun events as means to connect us,” and “County pride.” Special events
within historic neighborhoods may serve as a means to connect people;
preservation of historic neighborhoods with distinctive architecture may foster
county pride.
Theme Statement:
“The people of Wayne County, for enrichment, enjoyment and fun, will have
access to diverse cultural and recreational opportunities.”
Historic neighborhood preservation falls within the focus areas of “Culture/arts”
and “Museums.” Preserving cultural resources within historic neighborhoods

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 21
Richmond’s Preservation Context

may provide cultural opportunities; establishing and/or promoting house museums
within historic neighborhoods may add to the focus area of museums.

Theme Statement:
“The people of Wayne County will protect, preserve, and develop our land,
homes, buildings, and our environment to enhance our future while honoring our
heritage.”
Historic neighborhood preservation falls within the focus areas of “Environment,”
“Housing,” Beautification,” “Historic preservation (utilizing historic areas for
current uses),” and “Neighborhoods.” Preserving land and homes, enhancing and
beautifying neighborhoods, and honoring the natural and built environment are all
viable means for addressing the focus areas.
Theme Statement:
“Wayne County’s economic environment will support a diverse and sustainable
economy that encourages innovation and risk taking.”
Historic Neighborhood preservation falls within the focus areas of “Attracting and
keeping young people,” and “Turning our fun/culture/arts/recreation into
economic vitality.” Preserving and promoting historic neighborhoods may help
attract young people to these areas. Promoting cultural resources within these
neighborhoods may contribute to economic vitality and a sustainable economy.

Preservation Efforts in
Richmond and Wayne County
Wayne County has been involved in preserving parts of its heritage for quite a long time.
One of the earliest efforts to do so was by the Wayne County Historical Society that was
established in 1929. Other establishments committed to the history of their towns include
Historic Hagerstown established in 1974, and Overbeck House. Historic Centerville Inc.,
is committed to the care of the Salisbury Log Courthouse, and Mansion House.
Another source of preservation for the county come in the form of the National Register.
The register recognizes outstanding buildings as well as their historic, architectural,
technological, or cultural significance. There are more than twenty-five individual
listings in the county, in addition to historic districts that have been designated.
Richmond has four such designations, Old Richmond (1974), Starr Historic District
(1974), East Main Street –Glen Miller Park (1986), and Richmond Rail Road Station

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 22
Richmond’s Preservation Context

district (1987). In addition to this, the Reeveston Neighborhood is in the process of being
designated. The Levi Coffin House, located in Fountain City, which was listed in the
register in 1966, is also a national Historic Landmark.
Preservation efforts have also been made in the form of publications geared toward
varying preservation contexts. These include Historic Richmond: Toward Architectural
Preservation, published in 1970. The emphasis of this document was to guide urban
rehabilitation projects that involved the preservation of historic structures. This book was
important because it first mentioned the need for a preservation district. Another
document titled A Rehabilitation Guide for the Near North Neighborhood Richmond,
Indiana a 1994 study conducted for a Ball State University studio project. Finally, a
survey of Wayne County was conducted in 2001 by Historic Landmarks Foundation of
Indiana. This survey was part of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division
of Historic Preservation and Archeology’s statewide inventory of historic resources. This
survey was published in The Wayne County Interim Report. Listed in this document are
all historically significant buildings in the county. This report lists thirteen distinct
districts, as well as scattered sites.
Several community forums have been held with a preservation emphasis. These include
the sustainable Communities Through Historic Preservation Heritage Tourism
Conference, A Visioning process for the community of Richmond that includes some
preservation components, and most recently a community forum held for the purpose of
developing this document.
Final preservation efforts have been made by the formation of several organizations, both
public and private. One of the firs private preservation organizations developed in the
early 1970s was Old Richmond, which later became known as Historic Richmond. By the
late 1970a, a group called Neighborhood Preservation Services was created. This group
was a hands-on organization with the goal of saving buildings in Richmond and Wayne
County. By 1977, these two groups had joined creating the present Preserve Richmond
organization. Another organization with preservation interests is the Main Street
Program that promotes commercial revitalization. The final preservation group that
formed in 2000 is the Preservation Commission whose goal is to administer, facilitate,
and support the preservation of Richmond’s historic and cultural resources as defined in
the ordinance.
In addition to the districts already in place, there are current efforts being made to create
the city’s first conservation district. This district, following the approval of the City
Council, will be a single property district. The building located on the 700 block of
Henry Road South is known as Harry and Helene Frankel house.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 23
Role of the H.P. Commission

5ROHRIWKH+3&RPPLVVLRQ
In order for neighborhood preservation planning to be successful, there must be strong leadership
at the city level. Since 2000, the City of Richmond has in place a mechanism to facilitate this
success in the Historic Preservation Commission.
Richmond’s Historic Preservation Commission is unified group of seven (7) members appointed
by the Mayor that work together to administer, facilitate, and support the preservation of
Richmond’s historic and cultural resources, as defined in the ordinance. The Historic
Preservation Commission is responsible for identifying, evaluating, and reviewing historic
properties and districts. In addition, they serve as a liaison between the city government, local
neighborhood associations, the Chamber of Commerce, and various community organizations.
Furthermore, they must take a proactive role by recommending appropriate policies that support
neighborhood preservation to the City Council. The Historic Preservation Commission also acts
as an advisory group for neighborhood associations and individual property owners, to inform,
educate and involve local citizens in historic preservation matters and activities.

The primary goals and purposes of Richmond’s Historic Preservation Commission
are declared and defined within the Historic Preservation Ordinance No. 26-2000.
1)

“To promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the citizens of
Richmond.”

By assuming a leadership role, the Historic Preservation Commission can
fulfill this objective by advocating neighborhood historic preservation
initiatives in Richmond. The Commission ensures the public awareness of
preservation related issues and local initiatives affecting the historic
neighborhoods of Richmond. In addition, the Commission makes certain that
a preservation perspective is considered and incorporated into all planning and
development initiatives within Richmond.
2)

“Ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and development of the municipality.”

A key step for the Historic Preservation Commission is the development of a
proactive historic preservation plan for the City of Richmond that
compliments and promotes preservation components addressed in the
“Visioning” session and in the Comprehensive Plan of Richmond. The
Commission should also hold periodic review of plans to identify areas
effecting Richmond’s historic resources.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 24
Role of the H.P. Commission

3)

“Maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of having their
distinctiveness destroyed.”

The Commission is charges with identification and establishment of
conservation districts and after three years, develop those districts into local
historic districts. Within this process, the Commission role is to develop and
adopt design guidelines to ensure the historic character of the established
districts/neighborhoods is maintained.
4)

“Enhance property values and attract new residents”
By establishing conservation and local historic districts, protection is placed on the
character of the neighborhood and the potential for property value increases is
realized. The designation of these districts will promote neighborhood reinvestment,
attract new residents and encourage neighborhood pride in ownership. Several
studies have shown the potential relationship between historic district designation,
neighborhood revitalization, and increased property value.

5)

“Ensure the viability of the traditional Uptown area.”

The Commission should partner with and support Richmond’s Chamber of
Commerce, Main Street program, and local merchants. Forming these
partnerships will encourage and support reinvestment in and around the
Uptown area.
6)

“Enhance tourism within the City of Richmond.” The Commission can increase
tourism by working with neighborhoods in areas of promotion, endorsement, and
development Richmond’s historic resources.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 25
Role of the Neighborhood

5ROHRIWKH1HLJKERUKRRG
Historic preservation efforts are supported and promoted by all people at the federal, state, local,
or neighborhood level. Local residents, usually through neighborhood associations, can have a
profound impact on the direction of these efforts. A well organized and established neighborhood
association can work closely with the Historic Preservation Commission to help fulfill the
neighborhood preservation goals. It is this cooperation that will ensure success of a
neighborhood preservation plan. However, neighborhood preservation is a grass roots effort and
its success is critically reliant on the residents and property owners.
A neighborhood association can be defined as any group of people that proclaims its commitment
to neighborhood improvement and has a willingness to identify problems and seek solutions to
the problems faced by the neighborhood. Within this group of people, a consensus must be
reached as to the importance of neighborhood preservation as a priority. Once this is established,
the neighborhood should focus on the level of involvement and advocacy to which they will
commit.
A neighborhood association may face many issues with respect to historic preservation. In most
cases, a viable solution to preservation-related problems is reliant upon the involvement of the
neighborhood residents. An effective association will motivate residents, encourage consensus
building, and facilitate implementation of a preservation plan.
Further responsibilities of the neighborhood association are to provide a forum for residents to
express their opinions and build a consensus on key preservation issues affecting their area.
Affording residents an opportunity to become involved with the issues and problems confronting
their particular neighborhood and building strong communication between the neighborhood and
the city can result in significant progress. Neighborhood associations can provide a clear,
organized way for residents to speak to their city government. Two-way communication between
the city and the neighborhood association is the key to a growing, progressive relationship.
Lastly, the neighborhoods should utilize any and all available resources to help them achieve their
preservation-related goals. These resources may consist of but are not limited to city
commissions and departments, state agencies, non-profit organizations, and other civic
organizations.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 26
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

*RDOV2EMHFWLYHV $FWLRQ6WUDWHJLHV
In order for neighborhood Preservation to be successful in Richmond, involvement by
both the Historic Preservation Commission and the Neighborhood Associations are
necessary. Based on the community forum held in Richmond the following Goals and
Objectives for the HPC and the Neighborhood Associations are outlined. Included with
these goals and objectives are short, intermediate and long-term action strategies for each
goal and objective identified.

Goals, Objectives and Actions Strategies
for the
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission

GOAL 1: ADVICE AND DIRECTION - To provide advice to residents and direction for
preservation in Richmond

Objective: To give technical information to interested residents and groups.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Create a Historic Preservation Commission web site on the city
of Richmond’s website that provides information on the history
of Richmond, grant programs, technical issues, Commission
hearing dates, and any other pertinent information relating to the
Preservation Commission’s proceedings.
o Initially, the web site should contain meeting minutes
and hearing dates. A subsequent stage of its
development should include information on the
Certificate of Appropriateness application process, the
application itself for applicants to print out, and the
agenda for the next meeting. As other pages of the web
site are developed, they should include links to useful
websites like the National Park Service’s Preservation
Briefs, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the
Indiana Division of Historic Preservation and
Archeology and Richmond neighborhood associations.

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 27
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Establish a preservation section within the local library. Obtain
grants to buy books for the library pertaining to repair of historic
homes, researching building histories, architectural styles, and
the National Register of Historic Places. When neighborhood
preservation plans are adopted, those should be available at the
library as well.
Long term (6++ years)
• Partner with preservation organizations to give presentations or
workshops. Suggested partner organizations would be: State
Historic Preservation Office, Ball State University Historic
Preservation Program, and Historic Landmarks Foundation of
Indiana.
Objective: To serve as an advocate for preservation in Richmond.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Work with neighborhood associations to promote preservation
within their respective areas by establishing a neighborhood
liaison system that has designated neighborhood
representatives that receive information on Commission
activities. These liaisons should receive meeting agendas and
could be a contact person for the Commission when this body
needs information about a certain neighborhood such as the
dates of neighborhood meetings and events.
• Promote preservation as a goal for the city government and the
planning department.
o Ask the planning staff to provide the Commission with
agendas for every case that goes before the Common
Council that is for a parcel in a historic area of
Richmond. The Commission should direct the planning
staff to the Wayne County Interim Report for
information on the boundaries of historic areas in
Richmond. For those cases where the Commission feels
the historic area will be affected by a planning-related
case, the Commission could then decide to compose a
position letter for submission to the Common Council
when it hears the case.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 28
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

•

Communicate regularly with the Chamber of Commerce and
the Mayor’s Office to update these parties regularly on the
Commission. A quarterly memo, or more often as needed,
could be sent to these parties, which could be augmented by a
meeting at least twice a year.

Long term (6++ years)
• After the Commission has a full-time preservation officer, the
Commission should then conduct the staff review of any
zoning cases in its designated districts.
• Work with the Planning department to determine the feasibility
of having a historic preservation overlay zone for its designated
districts.
Objective: To develop a Master Preservation Plan for the city of Richmond.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Review the visioning process to revisit preservation issues in
Richmond.
• Review the 2001 Wayne County Interim Report in order to
identify the unique character of Richmond’s historic
neighborhoods and landmarks.
• Prepare a statement of goals for preservation in Richmond.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Apply to make the Richmond Commission a Certified Local
Government (CLG) and therefore be eligible to receive funding
for preservation initiatives. The benefits of the CLG program
include having a competitive edge when applying for historic
preservation grants. Each State Historic Preservation Office is
required to set aside 10% of its federal funding for various
CLG activities, which may include survey projects, National
Register nominations, publications, and restoration work. Other
advantages include participation in statewide preservation
programs and planning, and eligibility to participate in
nominations to the National Register of Historic Places.
o To apply for Certified Local Government Status, the
Historic Preservation Commission should provide to the
Division of Historic Preservation & Archaeology the
following:
 Copy of the preservation ordinance


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 29
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies



•

Letter of compliance from the Mayor and
Commission Chair
 Resumes for each Commission member
 Resumes for staff
 Assurance of compliance with review of
federally funded projects
 List of designations
 Description of survey and how it will be
updated
Use CLG funds to hire a consultant for the preparation of a
Master Preservation Plan.

Long term (6++ years)
• Review and update the Plan every five years.
• Hire a full-time historic preservation officer. The officer’s
background should either be in historic preservation, planning,
architecture or a related field.

GOAL 2: EDUCATION – To educate Richmond about preservation and the
Preservation Commission’s activities.
Objective: To build upon the Commission’s knowledge of preservation and
Richmond’s historic resources.
Action:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Examine 2001 Wayne County Interim Report to be up to date
on Richmond’s historic resources.
• Join the National Alliance of Preservation Commissions
(NAPC). Its mission is to build “strong local preservation
programs through education, training, and advocacy.”
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Participate in a NAPC Commission Assistance and Mentoring
“summer camp” program.
Long term (6++ years)
• Send one Commission member or a staff member to attend a
preservation conference, such as Indiana’s O’Brien
Conference, the American Planning Association’s annual
conference, or the National Trust for Historic Preservation’s
National Preservation Conference. These conferences provide

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 30
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

an excellent opportunity to meet other commission members,
get ideas on initiatives other commissions are undertaking, and
sessions on general preservation issues.

GOAL 3: PROTECTION – To maintain Richmond’s established residential
neighborhoods in order to preserve their distinctiveness.
Objective: To identify boundary lines and establish local historic districts and
landmarks.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years):
• Identify boundaries and landmarks utilizing Wayne County
Interim Report and/or National Register Nomination forms.
These resources may be used for the creation of the district
maps and the building classifications required for designation.
• Identify 1-2 neighborhoods that will be priorities for
designation.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Educate property owners in historic neighborhoods about the
requirements, procedures, and benefits of local ordinance
protection.
• Build support within the neighborhoods for local designation.
• Work towards designating 1-2 neighborhoods identified above
as conservation districts.
• Notify property owners in neighborhoods that are going to be
going before the Commission for designation. Gain support
from at least 50% of the property owners, though 75% is
recommended.
• Write the ordinance amendment that will designate the
neighborhood or landmark.
• If passed by the Commission, present the amendment to the
Common Council.
Long term (6++ years)
• After three years of designation, discuss whether any
designated conservation districts should become historic
districts. Meet with neighborhoods to discuss the differences
between conservation and historic districts.
• Discuss neighborhoods and landmarks that should be
considered next for designation.

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 31
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

Objective: To develop and adopt design guidelines for designated districts and
landmarks.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Inventory and analyze the prominent architectural
characteristics of designated neighborhoods.
• Educate property owners about the requirements, procedures,
and benefits of design guidelines for historic neighborhoods.
Intermediate (3-6 years)
• Hold public meetings to determine the goals, objectives, and
components of neighborhood design guidelines. Important
issues to discuss are what the residents want regulated and the
rationale behind design guidelines.
Long term (6++)
• Write design guidelines for individual, designated
neighborhoods.
• Adopt design guidelines for neighborhoods.
• Revise guidelines if a conservation district becomes a historic
district.

GOAL 4: PROMOTION – To promote, endorse, and advertise Richmond’s historic
resources and preservation activities.
Objective: To promote Richmond’s historic neighborhoods and landmark
buildings and enhance tourism within Richmond.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Develop a relationship with reporter/editor from the
Palladium-Item newspaper that will continually cover
Preservation Commission meetings and frequently feature the
on-going neighborhood activities, events, and achievements.
• Create a recognition/award program that honors and commends
individual and neighborhood preservation efforts and
achievements in Richmond. Examples of award categories
include Best Restoration or Best New Construction, and no
more than 3 awards should be given each year.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 32
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

•
•

Educate and inform neighborhood associations about National
Historic Preservation Week in May and encourage their
support and participation.
Brainstorm activities the Commission could co-sponsor to
promote Richmond’s neighborhoods.

Long term (6++ years)
• Sponsor or co-sponsor an activity or event during Preservation
Week. Examples of events include workshops on how to
research a house’s history, hands-on workshops such as
window repair, neighborhood tours, or theme tours (i.e. sites
associated with a family, or similar buildings like factories or
churches).
• Talk with local schools about education opportunities in
regards to Richmond’s history (i.e. speakers, field trips).
• Encourage creation of walking tour brochures of historic areas
of downtown and make them available to local schools,
historical society, and neighborhood associations.




Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 33
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

Goals, Objectives and Actions Strategies
for the
Neighborhood Associations

GOAL 1: ADVICE AND DIRECTION – To provide the historic neighborhoods of
Richmond with advice, direction and leadership with regards to
maintaining and preserving the historic character of their
neighborhood.
Objective:

To improve the overall quality and appearance of a historic
neighborhood.

Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• If one does not already exist, discuss and raise support for a
neighborhood association.
• Create neighborhood association goals. Goals should include
the preservation of the neighborhood’s historic resources.
• Conduct regular meetings. Meetings should include a regular
preservation agenda item.
• Advocate and vote for officials who support neighborhood
preservation efforts and initiatives.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Create a newsletter that informs about neighborhood
association activities and preservation issues.
• Establish a coalition and create dialogue between
neighborhood associations. A coalition of associations would
provide a unified voice to the city in regards to neighborhood
concerns.
Long term (6++ years)
• Invite guests and preservation professionals to discuss legal
issues, the National Register process, historic house research,
funding avenues, etc. Guest speaker sources could be acquired
from the following organizations; Ball State University’s
Department of Architecture, Indiana’s Division of Historic


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 34
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

•

Preservation and Archeology, Historic Landmarks Foundation
of Indiana, Local and State Historical Societies.
Create a suggested resource list for the Preservation
Commission to use in establishing a preservation library
collection.

GOAL 2: EDUCATION – To educate the neighborhood residents of the value and
importance of Richmond’s historic neighborhoods.
Objective:

To encourage neighborhood associations to educate themselves
about the historic resources within their neighborhood and how to
protect these valuable resources.

Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Neighborhoods should familiarize themselves with the Wayne
County Interim Report (a county survey of historic buildings
and sites) and National Register nominations for neighborhood
districts. Neighborhoods can utilize these resources to realize
what resources are available within the their neighborhood.
Intermediate (3-6 years)
• Create a neighborhood website with links to other preservation
sites on the Internet. Suggested links include the National Park
Service, Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Division
of Historic Preservation and Archeology, National Trust for
Historic Preservation, etc.
• Collaborate with other neighborhood associations to find out
what other organizations are doing to educate their residents
about neighborhood preservation.
Long term (6++ years)
• Develop a walking tour brochure that promotes and educates
potential residents and visitors about the historic resources of
the neighborhood. Themes for these brochures include
neighborhood resources, architectural styles, historical themes,
and building types (i.e. churches, factories, etc.).
• Sponsor or co-sponsor National Historic Preservation
Awareness Week events in conjunction with National
Preservation Week in May. Examples of events include


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 35
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

•

neighborhood tours, hands-on workshops, and educational
presentations on local history.
Utilize local vocational programs to create a restoration
assistance program that could demonstrate proper restoration
techniques to neighborhood residents.

GOAL 3: PROTECTION – To preserve and protect the historic resources of
Richmond’s neighborhoods, including buildings, sites, and
landscapes.
Objective:

To begin establishing local neighborhoods as conservation districts
as per Richmond’s Historic Preservation Ordinance.

Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Compile a list of property owners within the district
boundaries.
• Discuss designation with neighborhood residents in order to
gain support.
• Define the boundary areas of the neighborhood to facilitate the
creation of maps of the district.
• Develop a map indicating the boundaries of the proposed
conservation district.
• Contact the Historic Preservation Commission in order to begin
the designation process.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Build support for designation from at least 50% of property
owners, as required for designation.
• Attend Commission hearings and Common Council
proceedings that discuss the neighborhood’s designation.
Long term (6++ years)
• Discuss option of becoming historic district after three years of
being a conservation district. Invite Commission members to
neighborhood meeting to explain the difference between these
two types of designation.
• Build support for historic district designation from at least 50%
of property owners.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 36
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

Objective: To develop and implement design guidelines for maintaining
architectural character within historic neighborhoods.
Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Consider or identify outside agencies (i.e. Ball State University
MSHP students) to develop design guidelines.
• Conduct visual survey of neighborhood resources to identify
common themes among those properties.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Create design guidelines that would ensure sensitive additions
and alterations along with minimum maintenance standards to
the historic resources within the neighborhood.
Long term (6++ years)
• Adopt design guidelines when neighborhood becomes a
historic district.

GOAL 4: COMMUNICATION/PARTNERSHIPS – To develop communication and
partnerships with established community and preservation-related
organizations.
Objective:

To promote an active dialogue between neighborhood
organizations, city officials, the preservation commission, nonprofit groups, and other interested parties to encourage strong
partnerships.

Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Designate a liaison system between the city historic
preservation commission and each neighborhood association.
The liaison would be responsible for attending meetings and
reporting back to their respective organization.
• Invite community leaders to be involved in planned
neighborhood events. Specifically, representatives from the
Mayor’s Office, Common Council, and Preservation
Commission.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 37
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

Intermediate (3-6 years)
• Identify and contact community leaders about issues and
opportunities that need to be addressed within historic
neighborhoods.
• Encourage community leaders to back initiatives that are
sensitive to the needs and wants of historic neighborhoods.
Long term (6++ years)
• Collaborate with other neighborhood groups to discuss
solutions to neighborhood challenges. Hold social events that
encourage idea exchange in an informal setting. Invite other
residents of Richmond into your neighborhood and show them
the advantages to owning and living in a historic neighborhood.
• Establish a permanent position for a member of the
neighborhood association to sit on the Historic Preservation
Commission. The ex-officio member could inform commission
on neighborhood preservation issues and could promote the
neighborhood association’s agenda.
Objective:

To encourage community leaders to have an active involvement in
neighborhood issues and events.

Actions:
Short term (1-3 years)
• Invite community leaders to be involved in neighborhood
events and meetings.
Intermediate (3-6 years)
• Encourage community leaders to push for actions that are
sensitive to the needs and wants of historic neighborhoods.
Long term (6++ years)
• Establish a permanent position for a member of the Chamber of
Commerce or Mayor’s office to sit on the neighborhood
association.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 38
Goals, Objectives, and Strategies

GOAL 5: PROMOTION –To promote the historic neighborhood/district as an
important local resource.
Objective:

To develop promotional events and recognition programs that
encourage neighborhood residents to take pride in ownership,
while promoting their historic resources to the outside community.

Actions:
Short term (1-3) years
• Create an award program that recognizes specific
accomplishments within the neighborhood. Awards would be
given out on a yearly basis with no more than two recognitions
per year. Examples of two awards would be Best Historic
Restoration and Most Improved House. Be selective.
Intermediate term (3-6 years)
• Publicize neighborhood events and publish award winners in
local newspapers and on radio stations to increase visibility
within Richmond.
• Identify reporter at Palladium-Item that covers neighborhood
events, and ensure that this reporter is informed about events
being held.
Long term (6++ years)
• Use already planned community events in order to create
higher visibility for your neighborhood organization. For
example, host a neighborhood event in conjunction with other
community events such as Pioneer Days, Railroad Days, and
the Richmond Jazz/Arts Festival.
• Host neighborhood events including house tours, block parties,
holiday tours, etc. These events may draw outside interest
from those interested in historic neighborhoods.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 39
Appendices

$SSHQGLFHV
Appendix A: Richmond Contacts
Appendix B: Preservation Organizations
Appendix C: Certified Local Government (CLG) Information
Appendix D: Tax Credit and Grant Programs
Appendix E: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
Appendix F: Preservation Briefs Introduction
Appendix G: National Register Information


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 40
Appendices

Appendix A: Richmond Contacts

Richmond Planning Department
50 North 5th Street
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone: (765) 983-7341
Community Development
Constituency Services Coordinator
50 North 5th Street
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone: (765) 983-7222
Fax: (765) 983-7212

Mayor’s Office
City of Richmond, Indiana
50 North 5th Street
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone: (765) 983-7208
Fax: (765) 983-7212
email: mayor@ci.Richmond.in.us
Richmond/Wayne County Chamber of Commerce
33 South 7th Street - Suite 2
Richmond, Indiana 47374
Phone: (765) 962-1511
Web site: http://www.rwchamber.org/
Wayne County Foundation
33 South 7th Street – Suite 1
Richmond, Indiana 47374
Phone: (765) 962-1638
Web site: http://www.waynet.org/nonprofit/waynecofoundation.htm
Main Street Richmond/Wayne County
829 E. Main St.
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone: (765) 962-8151
Web site: http://www.uptownrichmond.com/


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 41
Appendices

Appendix B: Preservation Organizations
There are several organizations and agencies that are useful for those involved with
preservation projects to know about. They can be sources of information, support, and
funding.
National:
Heritage Preservation Services
National Center for Cultural Resources Stewardship & Partnership Programs
National Park Service
1849 C Street, NW, NC330
Washington, D.C. 20240
Phone: (202) 343-9583
Web site: http://www2.cr.nps.gov/welcome.htm
This branch of the Park Service is involved with many different areas of
preservation. This agency publishes the Preservation Brief series (see Appendix
F), Preservation Tech Notes, and The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the
Treatment of Historic Properties and Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating,
Restoring and Reconstructing Historic Buildings (see Appendix E). They also
manage the Historic Preservation Fund that gives money to states for historic
preservation.

National Trust for Historic Preservation
1785 Massachusetts Ave, NW
Washington, DC 20036
Phone: (202) 588-6000
Web site: http://www.nthp.org
In existence for over 50 years, this is the largest preservation non-profit
organization in the country. Their mission statement is: “The National Trust for
Historic Preservation provides leadership, education and advocacy to save
America's diverse historic places and revitalize our communities.” They also host
a national preservation conference every year for preservation professionals.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 42
Appendices

National Main Street Center of the
National Trust for Historic Preservation
1785 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20036
Phone: (202) 588-6219
Web site: http://www.mainstreet.org
A branch of the National Trust, this organization’s focus is on Main Street areas
such as downtowns. They have developed an approach for how to revitalize
downtowns and offer technical assistance. Indiana has its own branch of the Main
Street program (see below).

National Alliance of Preservation Commissions
Post Office Box 1605
Athens, GA 30603
Phone: (706) 542-4731
Web site: http://www.arches.uga.edu/~napc/index.htm
According to its mission, the NAPC builds strong local preservation programs
through education, training, and advocacy. Its focus is on preservation
commissions and the organization publishes a bi-monthly publication, Alliance
Review. NAPC also provides professional summer camps for local commissions
who feel they need some additional training.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 43
Appendices

Indiana Resources

Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology
Department of Natural Resources
402 W. Washington Street, W274
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204-2739
Phone: (317) 232-1646
Web site: http://www.state.in.us/dnr/historic/
This division is Indiana’s State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO). It
administers the state’s Historic Preservation Fund grant programs, reviews
National and Indiana Register nominations, and manages the state’s cemetery and
burial grounds registry.

Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana
340 West Michigan Street
Indianapolis, IN 46202
Phone: 800-450-4534
Web site: http://www.historiclandmarks.org
This statewide non-profit organization provides information on many aspects of
preservation through publications and workshops. With eight regional offices and
a headquarters in Indianapolis, Historic Landmarks tries to help both individuals
and local organizations find the resources they need for their preservation
projects.

Indiana Main Street
Indiana Department of Commerce
One North Capitol, Suite 700
Indianapolis, IN 46204-2288
Phone: (317) 233-0410
Web site: http://www.ai.org/mainstreet/
In January 1986, Indiana Main Street opened its doors as a technical assistance
program of the Indiana Department of Commerce. Indiana Main Street does not
provide direct grants or funding; instead, it emphasizes building local resources
through professional assistance to its participating communities.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 44
Appendices


Appendix C: Certified Location Government (CLG) Information
What are the Benefits of Being a CLG?
The benefits to local governments from participating in the CLG program are
numerous. While CLG grants generally represent a relatively small amount of
funds, they have often been used as seed money to attract funding from local
government or other sources. Also, in many cases, the products generated by CLG
grants have provided credibility to a fledgling local historic preservation program.
Beyond being just a source of funds, the CLG program has helped institutionalize
historic preservation and give it legitimacy as a function of local government.
Since the local government staff working in the CLG Program are often in the
local planning office, the CLG program has helped forge critical connections
between historic preservation and land use planning. Similarly, the CLG program
has led to increased cooperation between local preservationists and the State
Historic Preservation Office and resulted in a strengthened statewide preservation
network.
Where does funding for CLG grants come from?
Funding for grants to Certified Local Governments comes from the Historic
Preservation Fund (HPF), a Federal grants program appropriated by the U.S.
Congress and administered by the National Park Service (NPS), which provides
financial support to State Preservation Offices (SHPOs). Under the provisions of
the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, SHPOs are required to award
at least 10% of their annual HPF monies to CLGs in their State.
What types of projects are eligible for CLG funding?
HPF grants to Certified Local Governments have funded a wide variety of local
historic preservation projects. Projects eligible for funding and the criteria used to
select them are developed yearly by each SHPO. CLG project types that have
been funded include the following:
• architectural, historical, archeological surveys, and oral histories
• preparation of nominations to the National Register of Historic Places
• research and development of historic context information
• staff work for historic preservation commissions, including designation of
properties under local landmark ordinances
• writing or amending preservation ordinances
• preparation of preservation plans
• publication information and education activities

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 45
Appendices
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

publication of historic sites inventories
development of publication of walking/driving tours
development of slide/tape shows, videotapes
training for commission members and staff
development of architectural drawings and specifications
preparation of facade studies or condition assessments
rehabilitation or restoration of properties individually listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or contributing to a National Register historic
district

What other criteria govern whether a local historic preservation project is eligible
for funding?
There are two other factors: all CLG grants must result in a completed, tangible
product and/or measurable result; and all must be carried out in accordance with
the applicable Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation (See
Appendix E for more information).
How much money is there in a CLG grant?
The amount of money in a CLG grant must be large enough to have tangible
results. Otherwise, there are no specific Federal requirements regarding the
amount of money SHPOs make available in individual grants to CLGs.
Consequently, the dollar amount of the grant depends primarily on the funding
policy set by each SHPO. Some States try to award a grant to each CLG in the
State every year. In general, the dollar amount of grants in these States tend to be
small, particularly if there are numerous CLGs. On the other hand, other States
award relatively few but larger grants. On a nationwide basis, CLG grants in 2001
ranged in size from $500 to $60,000.
Do CLG grants require a financial contribution from the CLG?
In most states, CLG grants are matching grants, i.e. recipients must provide a
certain amount of cash or in-kind services to be used in carrying out the grant
project. Each SHPO determines how much, if any, match is to be required. For
grants in Indiana, it depends on the type of grant. Some require a 50/50 match,
DQGRWKHUVUHTXLUHWKDWWKHCLG put up only 30% of the project’s costs. In most
States, a 50/50, or "dollar-for-dollar" match is required. This means that for every
dollar received the recipient must provide a matching dollar in services, cash, or
volunteer hours, as specified by State policy. (See "How can the grant be
matched?" below for more information.)


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 46
Appendices

How do SHPOs notify CLGs of the availability of CLG grants?
SHPOs makes an annual mailing to each CLG, and each local government whose
application for certification is pending, notifying them of the availability of CLG
grant funds. Potential CLG applicants are informed of the total amount of funds
available, state priorities for funding, criteria to be used in selecting proposals to
be funded (see below), a deadline for submitting requests, and a written
description of what must be included in applications for CLG grants. DHPA
makes the application packets available on its website as well.
What are the application procedures?
Although application procedures and time frames vary from State to State, in
general, the SHPO solicits grant proposals from its CLGs in the fall. Applicants
then submit a Grant Application (or Subgrant or Project Proposal), which
describes the project and why it is needed, how the project is to be carried out and
what its goals are, who will be doing the proposed work and their professional
qualifications, a proposed budget and project schedule, and the specific products
to be generated by the project. Applications are generally due in the fall.
Who decides which applications are funded?
Each SHPO sets its own funding priorities. Among the factors typically used to
rate grant proposals are compatibility with the broad goals of the SHPO, urgency
of the project, significance of the historic properties, geographic distribution of
grant funds, education and public awareness potential, and the administrative and
financial management capability of the applicant. DHPA informs applicants of
not only how much money total will likely be available, but how that funding will
be divided among the different grant programs.
On what grounds may SHPOs decline to fund an individual CLG grant request?
CLG grants are competitive. While all CLGs are entitled to submit proposals, not
all may get funding. SHPOs may decline to fund a proposal that does not
adequately address the State’s funding priorities, meet its selection criteria, have
access to necessary professionals, or be achievable within the time period allowed
or the budget proposed. However, States must base grant award decisions on the
selection criteria included in the application instructions and notice of grant
availability. Additionally, SHPOs may choose not to fund a proposal if they have
reason to believe that the applicant does not have the necessary experience or
financial resources to carry out the project or has not performed satisfactorily on a
previous CLG grant.

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 47
Appendices

When are proposals selected?
While time frames vary in other states, successful applicants usually receive
notification in the early spring that their proposal will be funded. The SHPO staff
recommends applications that should be funded, and submits those
recommendations to the Indiana Historic Preservation Review Board at their first
meeting of the calendar year. An agreement between the SHPO and the CLG
stipulating the terms of the grant is generally signed in the spring or summer.
When can work begin?
Applicants for CLG funds must wait until the grant agreement between the SHPO
and the CLG’s chief elected local official, or his or her legal representative, is
signed before starting work on any project. Unless specifically authorized in
writing by the SHPO, costs incurred prior to execution of the written agreement
will not be paid.
How long does the grant last?
The schedule for completing the project will be outlined in the grant agreement.
Currently, DHPA stipulates that projects must be completed by the summer
following the beginning of the project (example: 2003 grant projects must be
finished in June of 2004). Most CLG grant projects are completed within 9 to 18
months. Multi-year projects require applying for separate grants in successive
years and performing the work in phases.
Can the time be extended?
If circumstances outside of the control of the CLG make the terms of the grant
agreement unachievable, the agreement may be modified or cancelled by mutual
agreement between the SHPO and the CLG. For example, if inclement weather
interferes with field survey and prevents completion of the work specified in the
grant agreement within the time period stipulated, a limited time extension may
be granted or the scope of work and budget amended. However, extensions may
not stretch the grant period beyond the two-year limit on the expenditure of HPF
monies. (See question above.)
When are the grant funds actually transferred to the CLG?
Most CLG grants are reimbursable grants. CLGs must first pay the project costs
and then submit a request to the SHPO for reimbursement. Consequently, the
CLG must have enough money "up-front" to be able to carry the project
(including paying contractors) until it gets reimbursed. CLGs should learn the

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 48
Appendices

requirements and timing of the State’s reimbursement procedures before the
project begins.
Does the CLG have to complete the project before being reimbursed?
Not always. Depending on the type of project funded, many SHPOs allow CLGs
to submit reimbursement claims on an interim "milestone achieved" basis. The
remaining 15% of the funding will be withheld until the DHPA staff approves the
final report for the project.
Why is matching share required?
In establishing a partnership between Federal, State, and local governments, the
National Historic Preservation Act requires that HPF grants be matching grants.
Underlying this requirement is the need for each of the partners to share the costs
of historic preservation. Matching grants ensure that there is strong State and local
commitment to projects and result in more historic preservation work being
performed than if Federal funds alone were involved.
How can the grant be matched?
Grants can be matched in three ways in Indiana: in cash, through in-kind services
(like services or goods), or volunteer time necessary to achieve the required
product. These can all be combined to achieve the match.
Can the time spent by CLG staff on the project be counted as match?
Yes. In most States, work on the project performed by the staff of the local
government is considered part of the overall cost of the project and can be
counted as part of the CLG’s match. Copies of time sheets and payroll printouts
are required as documentation of employee time devoted to the project. CLGs
must include staff time in the project budget, like any other cost, if they plan to
claim it as match.
Can the services of volunteers be counted as in-kind match?
Yes. Many states allow services provided by volunteers, both professional and
nonprofessional, to be counted as match by CLGs. The work performed by
volunteers must be a necessary part of achieving the products expected from the
project and cannot be more than half its total cost.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 49
Appendices

When used as match, how are volunteer services valued?
In order to claim volunteer services as in-kind match, CLGs must first establish
the rate of pay for the type of work performed by the volunteers. Often SHPO pay
scales establish the maximum rate allowed for professionals. If a volunteer
performs services outside his or her profession, the volunteer time must be valued
at the Federal minimum wage rate (for example, an archeologist stuffing
envelopes would be valued at minimum wage rate). Also, as evidence that
volunteers contributed to the project, time records documenting each volunteer’s
time must be submitted to the State.
If a CLG chooses not to count volunteer services as match, does it still have to
provide time records?
No. In most States, documentation of volunteer time spent on a project is only
required when the CLG wishes this contribution to count as part of its matching
share.
What other types of in-kind services can be counted as match?
Most States allow CLGs to claim as match in-kind services such as supplies (i.e.,
paper or film), developing photographs, photocopying, office rent, clerical
support, or certain administrative costs when these are donated to the project by
either the local government or a third party. When a CLG chooses to count these
supplies or services as match, documentation is required. If grant funds could
have been used to pay for a particular item had it not been donated, then the
donation will usually be allowable as a matching share contribution.
What sort of reports must be turned in?
Progress reports are usually required on an interim basis. These reports must
include a description of what has actually been accomplished and spent to date.
SHPOs set the format for these reports and require preliminary products, as
appropriate. A final project report is also required upon completion of the grant.
What sort of procedures must be followed when a local government uses CLG grant
funds to pay for consultants or contractors?
Hiring consultants or contractors to perform part of the project must be done in
accordance with acceptable State-established competitive procurement procedures
compatible with Federal requirements (and with whatever local procedures
apply). Frequently, existing State and local government procedures that meet
these requirements are used. A certain number of qualified firms or individuals

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 50
Appendices

must be contacted to ensure a fair, open, and competitive selection process.
Generally, at least three price quotations or bids must be obtained and the process
must be documented. Architects, historians, or other professionals must meet
qualification standards set by NPS. Selection may be based on experience,
qualifications and cost, rather than cost alone. In many States, the SHPO requires
that the CLG consult with it before consultants or contractors are selected.
Can CLG grant funds be used to buy supplies or equipment?
Yes. Most local, State, and Federal regulations require price comparisons and a
competitive selection process in purchasing equipment, negotiating a lease, or
procuring nonprofessional services. Generally, State and local procurement
regulations apply. Some SHPOs require grantees to request prior approval for
purchases greater than $500 in value.
How long must records on grant expenditures be kept?
The grant agreement usually specifies records requirements. Documentation
relating to the fiscal aspect of any grant project usually must be kept for a
minimum of three years after the date of receipt of the last payment (i.e.
reimbursement under a CLG grant), or until an audit for the grant period is
accepted.
Where can I find additional information on CLG grants?
The Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology (see Appendix B for their
contact information and web site)

Source: National Parks Service web site: http://www2.cr.nps.gov/clg/clgquest.htm


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 51
Appendices

Appendix D: Tax Credit and Grant Programs

Tax Credit Programs
National:
Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit
The federal government offers the Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit as a
financial incentive for owners of historic properties to complete appropriate
renovation. To qualify for the tax credit--equal to 20% of qualified rehabilitation
expenses--a building must be listed in or eligible for the National Register of
Historic Places, and must be income-producing (not a private residence). The
renovation must comply with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation (see Appendix E). There is a three-part application process during
which DHPA reviews the project components for their eligibility for the credit,
and to provide advice on the application contents.
State:
Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit
A state historic rehabilitation tax credit program is available to Indiana state
income taxpayers who undertake certified rehabilitations of income-producing
historic structures (not private residences) that are at least 50 years old and listed
on the Indiana Register of Historic Sites and Structures. Modeled on the Federal
historic preservation tax credit incentive, the State credit program differs from the
Federal program in some ways. The new State Incentive allows a taxpayer to take
a State Income tax credit for 20% of the total qualified rehabilitation or
preservation cost of a project, up to a maximum of $100,000 per project. In order
for the project to be eligible for the tax credit, the work must meet the Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation. The program is administered by the
Division of Historic Preservation and Archaeology (DHPA). There is a cap on the
dollar amount of credits that can be issued each year. DHPA can be contacted for
applications and further information on this program. This requires one extra form
that can be submitted with the federal tax credit application.
Indiana Residential Historic Rehabilitation Credit
This program offers owner-occupants of historic houses a credit equal to 20% of
qualified rehab expenses against state tax liability. The residence must be at least
50 years old and listed in the National Register. Rehabilitation expenses must
exceed $10,000 and comply with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 52
Appendices

Rehabilitation. Before beginning rehabilitation work, contact DHPA for approval
and information.
Property tax deduction
An Indiana taxpayer who rehabilitates a historic structure--commercial building
or private home--can qualify for a tax deduction if the work increases the assessed
value of the building. The property owner may deduct 50% of the increase in
property tax resulting from the rehabilitation work. Expenses must exceed
$10,000, and the property must be at least 50 years old. For more details and to
request the appropriate state tax form, call your county auditor’s office.

Grant Programs:
Historic Preservation Fund: In Indiana, there are three sub-grants: Architectural and
Historical, Archeological, and Acquisition and Development. The state funding is
not divided equally between these three programs, but the state provides a
breakdown of the percentage that goes toward each of the sub-grants. These
grants can fund architectural surveys, preservation plans, building stabilization,
and other preservation-related projects. See the application packets for a list of
eligible projects for each of these grants.
Historic Landmarks Foundation Grants:
Indiana Preservation Grants
Historic Landmarks’ Indiana Preservation Grants are available to nonprofit
organizations for professional architectural and engineering feasibility studies and
other preservation consulting services, as well as organizational development and
fundraising projects. The grants may not be used for physical restoration work.
Historic Landmarks Foundation makes Indiana Preservation Grants on a four-toone matching basis, with four dollars from us matching each local cash dollar.
They will fund 80% of the total project cost up to $2,500.
African American Heritage Grants
Historic Landmarks’ African American Landmarks Committee awards grants
ranging from $500 to $2,500 to assist organizations in the preservation and
promotion of historic African American properties and sites in Indiana. Civic
groups, schools, libraries, historical societies, and other nonprofit agencies are
eligible to apply for grants for organizational assistance, studies assisting in or
leading to the preservation of a historic African American place, and programs
promoting the preservation, interpretation, and/or visitation of a historic African
American place. They make the grants on a four-to-one matching basis, funding
80% of the total project cost up to $2,500, whichever is less.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 53
Appendices

Heritage Preservation Education Grants
Historic Landmarks Foundation and the Indiana Humanities Council make grants
of up to $2,000 for educational projects related to historic properties in Indiana.
Eligible projects include lectures, workshops, conferences, production of
audiovisual materials, heritage and cultural tourism programs, and educational
publications. Proposals for Heritage Preservation Education Grants are due in
mid-January each year. Completed applications are due in March, and grant
awards are announced in late April. For more information, contact Historic
Landmarks’ Director of Heritage Education and Information.
Source for Historic Landmarks Grants information:
http://www.historiclandmarks.org/help/grants.html. Contact them for more information and
application procedures.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 54
Appendices

Appendix E: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards

The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties and
Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring and Reconstructing Historic
Buildings were written by the Park Service to provide guidance for the treatment of
historic buildings.
According to the Park Service, “The Standards are neither technical nor prescriptive, but
are intended to promote responsible preservation practices that help protect our Nation's
irreplaceable cultural resources. For example, they cannot, in and of themselves, be used
to make essential decisions about which features of the historic building should be saved
and which can be changed. But once a treatment is selected, the Standards provide
philosophical consistency to the work.” They are available through the following web site
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/standguide/index.htm and may also be purchased through the
Government Printing Office.
The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation specifically address
rehabilitation of historic properties, which is available at
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/tax/rehabstandards.htm. It is also available in an illustrated
version online (http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/tax/rhb/stand.htm) that also discusses
rehabilitation of specific materials. These Standards are used to evaluate work that is
being funded by Historic Preservation Fund grants or to determine whether a project is
eligible for tax credits. Here are the ten standards:
1. A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new use that
requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the building and its site
and environment.
2. The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal
of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a
property shall be avoided.
3. Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use.
Changes that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding
conjectural features or architectural elements from other buildings, shall not be
undertaken.
4. Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired historic
significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 55
Appendices

5. Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of
craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be preserved.
6. Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. Where the
severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new
feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and,
where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall be substantiated
by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
7. Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause damage to
historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of structures, if
appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means possible.
8. Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be protected and
preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be
undertaken.
9. New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy
historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be
differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale,
and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be undertaken in
such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the
historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 56
Appendices

Appendix F: Preservation Briefs Introduction
The Preservation Briefs series has been published by the National Park Service for over
25 years, and provides technical information for a range of problems that are associated
with older buildings. The intent of these publications is to provide a concise explanation
of the problem with various solutions, written in technical terminology that is still easy
for the layperson to understand.
All of these Briefs are available on-line at
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/briefs/presbhom.htm. They may also be purchased either
individually or in sets and their prices vary. Here is a list of the available titles:
01: Assessing Cleaning and Water-Repellant Treatments for Historic Buildings
02: Repointing Mortar Joints in Historic Masonry Buildings
03: Conserving Energy in Historic Buildings
04: Roofing for Historic Buildings
05: The Preservation of Historic Adobe Buildings
06: Dangers of Abrasive Cleaning to Historic Buildings
07: The Preservation of Historic Glazed Architectural Terra-Cotta
08: Aluminum and Vinyl Siding on Historic Buildings: The Appropriateness of
Substitute Materials for Resurfacing Historic Wood Frame Buildings
09: The Repair of Historic Wooden Windows
10: Exterior Paint Problems on Historic Woodwork
11: Rehabilitating Historic Storefronts
12: The Preservation of Historic Pigmented Structural Glass
(Vitrolite and Carrara Glass)
13: The Repair and Thermal Upgrading of Historic Steel Windows
14: New Exterior Additions to Historic Buildings: Preservation Concerns
15: Preservation of Historic Concrete: Problems and General Approaches
16: The Use of Substitute Materials on Historic Building Exteriors
17: Architectural Character - Identifying the Visual Aspects of Historic Buildings as an
Aid to Preserving Their Character

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 57
Appendices

18: Rehabilitating Interiors in Historic Buildings - Identifying Character-Defining
Elements
19: The Repair and Replacement of Historic Wooden Shingle Roofs
20: The Preservation of Historic Barns
21: Repairing Historic Flat Plaster - Walls and Ceilings
22: The Preservation and Repair of Historic Stucco
23: Preserving Historic Ornamental Plaster
24: Heating, Ventilating, and Cooling Historic Buildings: Problems and Recommended
Approaches
25: The Preservation of Historic Signs
26: The Preservation and Repair of Historic Log Buildings
27: The Maintenance and Repair of Architectural Cast Iron
28: Painting Historic Interiors
29: The Repair, Replacement, and Maintenance of Historic Slate Roofs
30: The Preservation and Repair of Historic Clay Tile Roofs
31: Mothballing Historic Buildings
32: Making Historic Properties Accessible
33: The Preservation and Repair of Historic Stained and Leaded Glass
34: Applied Decoration for Historic Interiors: Preserving Historic Composition Ornament
35: Understanding Old Buildings: The Process of Architectural Investigation
36: Protecting Cultural Landscapes: Planning, Treatment and Management of Historic
Landscapes
37: Appropriate Methods of Reducing Lead-Paint Hazards in Historic Housing
38: Removing Graffiti from Historic Masonry
39: Holding the Line: Controlling Unwanted Moisture in Historic Buildings
40: Preserving Historic Ceramic Tile Floors
41: The Seismic Retrofit of Historic Buildings: Keeping Preservation in the Forefront
42: The Maintenance, Repair and Replacement of Historic Cast Stone


Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002

Page 58
Appendices

Appendix G: National Register Information

The National Register of Historic Places is a list of properties that are considered to be of
importance nationally, statewide, or locally. A property’s significance can be either in a
building’s architecture, its history, or whether it has archeological value. Several of the
neighborhoods in Richmond are already listed on the National Register. Here are some
common questions associated with National Register listing:
If my house is on the National Register, does that mean I can’t change my house?
No. The National Register has an honorary function rather than a protective one.
The only time NR listing can influence a project is whether state or federal
funding is used for a project. Then, they have to go through a Section 106
Review, which basically mandates that the project managers have to be aware of
any historic properties in the project area and to make sure that those properties
are not adversely affected.
How do I list my property on the National Register?
DHPA can assist you in preparing the nomination form, which is available from
their office. When completed, it is then submitted to the DHPA staff for review. If
they have any corrections or questions about the form, the applicant will have the
opportunity to edit the nomination accordingly. Affected property owners are
notified and given a chance to object. No private property is listed in the Register
if the majority of owners object. The application is given a final review at the
state level by the Indiana Historic Preservation Review Board, a governorappointed nine-member panel of professional and citizen members. If the Board
agrees, the application is sent to the National Park Service to request official
listing on the National Register of Historic Places.
How do I find out if my property is already on the National Register?
There are several sources for this information. The Wayne County Interim Report
lists all properties and districts that are on the National Register. Since this report
was recently completed, it is fairly up to date. DHPA also publishes a book on a
roughly biannual basis called Historic Indiana that lists all of the Indiana
properties on the Register. If your house does not appear to be individually listed,
then it may be a part of a district. The Interim Report has maps of all of the
National Register districts, as well as an inventory of all properties in those
districts.

Neighborhood Preservation Planning
Richmond Historic Preservation Commission
City of Richmond, Indiana

Dec 9, 2002



 ======================== Madison ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Madison ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Madison ======================== Republican ======================== 

MADISON
COMMERCIAL DESIGN
REVIEW GUIDELINES
MADISON, INDIANA
PREPARED FOR THE CITY OF
MADISON, INDIANA

THOMASON AND ASSOCIATES,
PRESERVATION PLANNERS
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE
2009

INTRODUCTION
Historic preservation is a major factor in community and economic development
of Indiana’s towns and cities. A number of communities across the state have
enacted historic district zoning, and historic preservation is now incorporated in
many city and county planning efforts. The City of Madison recognizes the
importance of revitalizing historic commercial and residential areas of the city as
part of its economic goals.
The City of Madison adopted a municipal Historic Preservation Ordinance in
1982 and established a Historic District Board of Review to undertake the City’s
historic preservation program and to guide the future preservation policies,
planning, and programs:
To safeguard the heritage of the City by establishing a historic district
To establish the means of protecting the district’s natural and man-made
heritage while providing guidelines for compatible new
architectural development
To stabilize and improve property values within the district
To foster civic beauty and improvements
To strengthen local economy
To promote the use of the historic district for the education, pleasure, and
welfare of the citizens of the city, state, and nation.
The Madison Historic District became a National Historic Landmark (NHL) in
2006, a designation that recognizes the city's importance nationally for its
impressive collection of nineteenth and early twentieth century architectural
designs.

i

City of Madison
2009
Tim Armstrong, Mayor
City Council

Planning/Building
Inspection Department

Historic District Board
of Review

Bob Schoenstein

Mike Hoffman

Tony Hertz

President

Building Inspector

Virginia Jorgensen
Dirk Cheatham

Rick Berry

Louann Waller

Paul Davis

Pete Backus, Sr.

Planning Secretary

Mindy McGee

Jim Lee

Robert Saueressig

Darrell Henderson

Linda Wenning

Laura Hodges
Damon Welch

Project Consultants
Thomason and Associates
P.O. Box 121225
Nashville, TN 37212

ii

Acknowledgements
The Cornerstone Society considers it an honor and a privilege to present these, the first set of Design Review Guidelines for
use in Madison’s historic District. The Cornerstone Society wishes to express its sincere appreciation to all those who have
participated in the process and have contributed to the development of these manuals, especially:
to Marsh Davis, President of Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, for identifying the need for, and the importance
of having, comprehensive design guidelines and for arranging to make available the initial funding for this undertaking;
to The Efroymson Fund, a Central Indiana Community Foundation fund, for providing the initial funding for this project;
to the following local organizations that recognized the need for design guidelines and made financial contributions that
enabled the hiring of a nationally recognized expert to develop guidelines tailored specifically for Madison’s Historic
District:
The King’s Daughters Hospital
River Valley Financial Bank
Community Foundation of Madison and Jefferson County
Historic Madison, Inc.
City of Madison
Cornerstone Society, Inc.
to the members of the Madison Design Guidelines Taskforce that was assembled to plan the project, select a contractor, and oversee the project to its completion:
Tim Armstrong

Mayor, City of Madison

Mike Hoffman

City Building Inspector

Al Huntington

former Mayor, City of Madison

Dave Carlow

former City Council member

Jim Storm

former Building Inspector

Jeff Brautigam

Former Madison Historic District Review Board member

Rich Murray

Cornerstone Society, Inc.

Heidi Sauerssig

Cornerstone Society, Inc.

Nancy Gruner

Madison Main Street Program

Bob Sauerssig

Madison Main Street Program

John Staicer

Historic Madison, Inc.

Heidi Valco Kruggel

Historic Madison, Inc.

Sally Wurtz

Jefferson County Board of Realtors

Greg Sekula

Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana

Laura Renwick

Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana

and to Phil Thomason, preservation consultant who worked so diligently to give Madison a comprehensive set of design
guidelines that can be used by the entire community to help protect our outstanding architectural heritage .

iii

iv

Contents
Introduction
Intent and Purpose of Design Guidelines…….……………………………………….…………………..…….………....2
Economics of Preservation……………………………………………………………………………………...……………...5
A Brief History of Madison, Indiana…..……………..……………………………………………………………....…..…11
Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types..……….……….……………………………………………....17
Madison Historic District Board of Review …………………...…………….…………………………………...24
Design Guidelines
Architectural Features…………………………………………………………………………………………..……………...31
Awnings…………………………………………………………………………………………………....…………….……..…..34
Brickwork/Masonry …………………………………………………………………………………………….……...…...…..36
Cast Iron and Metal…………………………....………….………………………………………………………………..…...38
Doors and Entrances………………………………..………….………………………………………..………………..…….40
Fire Escapes and Staircases…………………………………………………………………………….……….…..………..43
Gutters and Downspouts……………………………………...………………………………………..………………........44
Lighting………………………………………………………………………………………………………..………..…………..45
Paint……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..……..……...…….46
Roofs……………………………………………………………………………………………………….………..……...……….47
Signs……………………………………………………………………..………………………………..…………………………48
Storefronts…………………………………………………………………………………………………….…..…………...….52
Windows………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…………..….......56
New Construction
Decks……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..………..…….….60
Ramps…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….…………..……..61
Rear and Lateral Additions………………………………....……..……………………………………..……………...…..62
Roofline Additions…………………………………………………………………………………………….………….……...63
Infill Buildings………………………………………………………………………………………………..…………….………64
Site and Setting
Streetscape elements ….……..………………………….……………………………………………………….….…….....67
Parking Lots……………………………………………………………………………………………………………...………..68
Utilities………… ….…………………………………………...……………………………………………………….….……...69
Moving Buildings………………..…………………………………….………………………………………………………..………......70
Demolition…………………….…………………………..………………….……………………………………………………..……..….71
Appendices……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..………..…73
A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards……………………….…………………………………………………………..……….....74
B: Basic Maintenance Advice……….……………………………………………………………………..………………….……...…..78
C: Definitions and Terms………………………………………………………………………………..…….……………..…….....…..81
D: Bibliography……..………………………………………………………………………………………………….….………….....…..86
E: Incentives and Assistance for Rehabilitation…………………………………………………………….…………….…...…....87
F: Resources………………………………………………………………………………………………..……………………………..……88
G: Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps…………………………………………………………………………89

Madison Design Review Guidelines

1

Intent and Purpose of Design Guidelines
The Madison Historic District is of National Significance
In recognition of Madison's architectural and historical legacy, the Madison Historic District was
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. The National Register is the nation’s official
list of properties important in the history, architectural history, archaeology, engineering, and culture
of the United States. It is maintained by the National Park Service and expanded through
nominations by individuals, organizations, state and local governments, and Federal agencies.
The Madison Historic District is also a National Historic Landmark (NHL). The prosperity that
Madison enjoyed in the nineteenth century is evident in its array of architectural styles, including
Federal, Greek Revival, and Italianate, as well as Craftsman and Art Moderne from the twentieth
century. The Madison Historic District was listed as an NHL in 2006 in recognition of its national
importance for its impressive collection of nineteenth and early twentieth century architectural
designs. The district encompasses all of Madison’s downtown, from the Ohio river on the south to
the toe of the hill on the north, and the city limits east to west. It consists of 133 blocks with over
2,000 commercial, residential, and industrial buildings. There are fewer than 2500 National Historic
Landmarks nationwide, and Madison’s Historic District, representing 3% of the 80,000 properties
listed in the National Register of Historic Places, is one of the largest NHL districts in the country.
Very few cities can boast the distinction of having its entire downtown listed as a National Historic
Landmark.
The Madison Design Review Guidelines are intended to provide specific criteria for alterations,
changes, construction, and demolition in the Madison Historic District. Design guidelines provide
owners of historic properties with assistance in making decisions about maintaining and enhancing
the appearance of their properties, as well as provide the city of Madison with a framework for
evaluating proposed changes. In this context, the guidelines are a useful tool for encouraging the
preservation of significant resources through a concerted effort of private and municipal
participation. The Design Guidelines support the city’s Historic District Ordinance and in no way alter
or replace the ordinance. Design guidelines help property owners understand the purpose, the
proper methods, and the private and public benefits of preserving and maintaining the historic
character and architectural integrity of their property. Ideally, a secondary role of design guidelines is
to engender a continuing interest in historic preservation and pride in community that will inspire the
maintenance of, and prevent the neglect, abandonment, and demolition of, historic properties.

2

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Intent and Purpose of Design Guidelines
The design guidelines are concerned with all aspects of historic structures and especially with facades
visible from streets. Most often the public views buildings from the street or sidewalk. The fronts of
buildings also typically contain the most defining features of the property such as porches, main
entrances, and decorative details. The rear of buildings are generally considered more private space
and rear elevations provide more flexibility for additions or alterations since they are generally not
readily visible due to the building's placement on the lot or screening by landscaping or fences.
Construction at the rear of buildings is preferred when additional living space is required.

The guidelines are divided into residential and commercial sections and building elements appear in
alphabetical order. Included is information on common rehabilitation questions, recommendations
for maintaining the site and setting of historic areas and guidance for new construction. Photographs
of buildings and architectural details in Madison are included to familiarize property owners with
typical features and characteristics. Property owners are encouraged to refer to the guidelines when
planning or designing new construction projects, planning exterior rehabilitations, and completing
everyday maintenance.

Madison contains a nationally significant collection of 19th and 20th century
commercial and residential architecture. (300 Block of Mulberry Street).

Madison Design Review Guidelines

3

District Map

The Madison Historic District boundary includes the city's older
residential and commercial areas. The design review guidelines
apply to properties within this boundary.

4

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Preserving Madison = Economic Development

Streetscape: 900 block West Main Street.
Historic Preservation Promotes Quality of Life
Quality of life comprises many facets of a livable community. Historic buildings embody a city’s past,
differentiating it from that of another place. The feeling of distinctiveness gives a community a
strong sense of place. Historic buildings often house the cultural and consumer activities associated
with quality of life, such as visiting museums, attending theaters, using libraries, and eating and
shopping in unique establishments. Historic buildings are often clustered in a pedestrian-friendly
location that is conducive to efficient access to employment, education, recreation, entertainment,
shopping, and services. Further, preserving downtown buildings is environmentally responsible and
helps prevent costs associated with rural development and sprawl. Madison has been recognized
nationally for its unique character and quality of life.
Historic Preservation is “Green”
The greenest buildings with the least impact on the environment are those that already exist.
Historic buildings embody energy that was expended in the past—the energy put forth to make the
bricks, lumber, and details. Debris from demolition makes up 25% to 30% of all materials discarded in
landfills. Preservation and rehabilitation precludes this wasteful loss of materials. Preserving and
recycling an existing historic building has less negative impact on the environment than new
construction.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

5

Preserving Madison = Economic Development
Historic Buildings Often Last Longer Than New Ones
The life expectancy of rehabilitated historic buildings may well be longer than that of new structures.
Many buildings constructed in the second half of the twentieth century do not compare in structural
soundness or quality of materials of historic buildings. For this reason, many buildings constructed
today will pose rehab problems in a few decades.
Historic Preservation Supports Taxpayers’ Investments
Economic development in downtown and inner-city neighborhoods encourages responsible use of
existing resources and infrastructure. Commitment to revitalization and reuse of historic commercial
areas and neighborhoods may be the most effective act of fiscal responsibility a local government
can take. Sprawl studies have proven over and over that the cost of infrastructure required in
suburban development exceed the tax revenue returned by the development. Historic preservation
bridges private and public investments.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Historic Preservation Increases Property Values
Studies across the country show that property values in designated National Register or local historic
districts either stabilize or increase. A 1997 study conducted by the Historic Landmarks Foundation of
Indiana compared annual appreciation of property values within several historic districts with those
of the overall municipal market in their corresponding cities. The study found that sale prices
appreciated more in historic districts in Evansville and Indianapolis than in adjacent neighborhoods
not within the historic district. While property values within historic districts in Indianapolis kept pace
with the overall market, those in Evansville out-paced the overall market. The study also found that
property values in Anderson steadily appreciated following the creation of historic districts there.
Studies across the nation, as well, are consistent in illustrating that historic overlays benefit owners
through higher property values and house sales.
Historic Preservation Creates Jobs
Rehabilitation and revitalization projects create thousands of jobs annually, and historic
rehabilitation creates more jobs than new construction. Rehabilitation projects are more labor
intensive than new construction. In new construction generally half of all expenditures are for labor
and half are for materials. In a typical historic rehabilitation project, between 60 and 70 percent of
the total cost goes toward labor, which places more money into the local economy. Further, with a
lower materials-to-labor ratio, fewer new resources are demanded by rehabilitation projects than in
new construction.

6

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Preserving Madison = Economic Development
Labor for preservation projects – carpenters, electricians, plumbers, sheet metal workers, painters –
is nearly always hired locally. And local wages are spent locally. As for new construction, historic
preservation generates jobs for architects, accountants, attorneys, engineers, preservationists, real
estate brokers, and others. Also, the materials used in preservation projects are much more likely to
be purchased locally, whereas materials for new construction are often purchased elsewhere.
Rehabilitation of existing resources, in addition to placing focus on downtown development, also
tends to encourage local entrepreneurs to establish businesses in these buildings. Thus, historic
preservation has a compounding effect on local economy and quality of life.
Historic Preservation Encourages Tourism
Preserving a city’s historic landscape translates into tourism revenue. The distinctive history, culture,
and landscape of a city attract visitors to a unique experience. The influx of tourists creates jobs and
brings revenue to the community. Heritage tourism, or tourism which focuses on historic areas and
sites, is one of the rapidly growing segments of the tourism industry. The quality and quantity of the
historic architecture in Madison provides opportunities to enhance tourism in the city. Design
guidelines encourage historic rehabilitation that is authentic and reinforce historic character, making
destinations attractive to tourists. Madison's historic character and special events attract an
estimated 300,000 tourists each year and these tourists add some fifty million dollars to the
economy of Jefferson County. These dollars come to the city and county in the form of taxes and
wages resulting from sales and employment in tourism based jobs.

West Main Streetscape.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

7

Preserving Madison = Economic Development
Tax Credits for Rehabilitation
Tax-related incentive programs are available at the federal and state levels in Indiana. To qualify for
the federal tax credit a building must be used for income-producing purposes and be listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or be contributing to the historic character of a historic district
listed on the National Register.
The Federal Preservation Tax Incentive is a cost-effective community revitalization program and
rewards the rehabilitation of historic properties with a 20% tax credit. Schools, factories, churches,
houses and other historic properties restored for use as income-producing properties such as rental
housing, retail stores, and offices may qualify for the credit. There is also a 10% federal tax credit
available for non-historic, non-residential buildings placed into service before 1936. The two federal
tax credits are mutually exclusive. The rehabilitation must follow the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards and the guidelines prepared for Madison are written to conform with these standards.
The Indiana Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit (IHRTC) also provides for a 20% credit for
rehabilitation expenditures against a property owner's state taxes. The review process is similar to
that for the federal credit and both the state and federal credits can be taken for the same project. In
addition to income-producing properties, the IHRTC is also available for property owners who
rehabilitate their own houses. The property must be at least fifty years old, listed on the Indiana
Register of Historic Sites and Structures and must be owned and occupied as the principal residence
by the taxpayer. (Under the current law, there are restrictions that may limit the taxpayer’s ability to
derive the full benefit of the credit. Please contact the Indiana Division of Historic Preservation and
Archaeology for more details.)
The Federal and State tax incentives are not mutually exclusive. For example, a project that costs
$500,000 would allow the owner to take a $100,000 credit against their federal taxes as well as a
$100,000 credit against their state taxes. Eligible expenditures include all rehabilitation costs for
work carried out within the footprint of the building such as materials, contractor labor, and design
fees.

The Eagle Cotton Mill on St. Michaels
Avenue in Madison is a prime candidate for
rehabilitation. Both federal and state tax
credits are available to property owners for
buildings such as this in Madison.

8

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Preserving Madison = Economic Development
Madison’s Historic Buildings and Sustainability
Preserving and maintaining Madison’s historic buildings is one of the city’s best opportunities for sustainable development. Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present
without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Preserving historic
buildings is a valuable approach for protecting the environmental resources that have already been
expended as well as those not yet used. Reusing sound older buildings is much more sustainable than
abandoning them or demolishing them. Preserving and revitalizing Madison’s historic district is
“recycling” on a community-wide scale.
Conserving buildings preserves embodied energy, and reduces the need for new materials
Embodied energy is the amount of energy associated with extracting, processing, manufacturing,
transporting and assembling building materials. Embodied energy in historic buildings includes the
expense and effort used to fire bricks, cut and tool stone, transport and assemble the wood framing,
and prepare and apply interior plaster. Construction of a building represents an enormous expenditure of energy from its foundation to its roof. Demolishing a historic building and replacing it with a
new energy efficient building would take decades to recover the energy lost in demolishing the building and reconstructing a new structure in its place.
Retaining and rehabilitating buildings is more environmentally friendly than new construction
When studying the environmental effects of buildings, life cycle assessments are utilized. Completing a life cycle assessment of a building means that you examine and determine the material and energy usage and environmental impacts at each stage including extracting the resources, construction, use and disposal. When completing a building assessment not only is the cost of construction
examined but also the costs and energy required to operate the building during its life.
One of the key considerations in a life cycle assessment of a historic building is the quality of its materials. The materials in historic houses often can last indefinitely if properly cared for. Most buildings
in Madison have old-growth wood windows, brick and wood exteriors, and stone foundations that
are a hundred years old or older. These materials can easily last another one hundred years because
of their inherent quality. Contrast this with common materials today such as vinyl windows or newgrowth wood elements that often require replacement after just ten to twenty years.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

9

Preserving Madison = Economic Development
Historic buildings were designed to be energy efficient and can be upgraded to increase energy conservation
Historic buildings are often as energy efficient than new ones. Data from the U.S. Energy Information
Agency found that buildings constructed before 1920 are actually more energy-efficient than those
built at any time until the past decade when home builders began a concerted effort of building more
energy efficient buildings. Many historic buildings have tall ceilings that help to reduce heat in the
summertime and brick and plaster walls that provide substantial insulation properties. Common upgrades to historic buildings include the addition of attic insulation, installation of storm windows, and
more efficient heating and cooling systems. In particular, repairing and weatherstripping historic
wood windows and adding storm windows often results in energy performance equal to new vinyl or
aluminum windows and at much less cost.
Preserving buildings reduces waste in landfills
Construction debris accounts for 35% of the waste in municipal landfills each year. Demolishing
sound historic buildings is wasteful of the building’s inherent materials and strains the limited capacities of landfills. Demolishing a 2,000 square foot home results in an average of 230,000 lbs of waste.

Fire Company building at 405 East
Main Street.

10

Madison Design Review Guidelines

History
The history and development of Madison, Indiana, was tied to the Ohio River. Located in
southeastern Indiana, Madison was historically both an important river port and an entry point to the
Indiana Territory. Following Native American occupation of the area, the Ohio River brought the
earliest explorers to the region in the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. Various
trapper companies passed through what later became Jefferson County crossing the river from
Kentucky. The first documented white settlers came to Jefferson County during the first decade of
the nineteenth century.
Following the Lewis and Clark expedition and the Louisiana Purchase, pioneers set out for the west,
taking advantage of river systems for speedy travel. Using flatboats and keelboats to navigate, they
populated the Ohio River Valley. Settlers incorporated the town of Madison, and lots went up for sale
in 1809. As the county seat of Jefferson County, Madison enjoyed quick growth and prosperity from
steamboat traffic on the Ohio River. By 1830, the population of Madison had grown to 1700.
Steamboat transportation enabled Madison businessmen to compete with other merchants on the
Ohio River and by the mid-1830s Madison had four wharfs. The prosperity of Madison in these early
decades was reflected in the many fine brick homes constructed in the Federal and Greek Revival
styles as well as many substantial brick commercial buildings along Main Street.

Exemplifying the unadorned, balanced
character of the Federal style, the Sullivan House at 304 West Second
Street was built in 1818 for state supreme court judge Jeremiah Sullivan,
from Virginia. Considered Madison’s
first mansion, the Sullivan House evidences the city’s rapid growth from
pioneer town in 1809.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

11

History
The John T. Windle
Auditorium (Second
Presbyterian Church) at 101
East Third Street was built in
1835 and is one of Madison’s
oldest public buildings. It is a
notable example of the Greek
Revival style in the Midwest.

Hogs were a major commodity of the region, and farmers drove their hogs to market on foot to
Madison. Pork production resulted in secondary markets for products such as hog bristle brushes,
soap, lard, and hide for leather. Within seventy-five miles of Cincinnati to the northwest, Madison
was part of the nation’s largest pork market, well ahead of Chicago’s dominance of that market.
By 1836, the laying of rail line, twenty miles from Madison to North Vernon in that year, simplified
the process of moving hogs to Madison. The building of the Madison and Indianapolis Railroad enabled the delivery of goods from rural locations to Madison, on the Ohio River, where steamboats
continued the rapid transportation of products and people up and down the river. Madison became
linked with eastern and southern markets.
By the early 1850s, Madison packed 124,000 hogs, compared with 334,000 in Cincinnati and 20,000 in
Chicago. During the 1850s, there were at least fourteen pork packing houses in Madison.

The Godman and
Sons packing
plant was in North
Madison along the
rail line.

12

Madison Design Review Guidelines

History

Railroad baron J.F.D. Lanier had this impressive Greek Revival mansion built in the 1840s. The estate
consisted of an entire block on West First Street. Also a financier, Lanier loaned the state of Indiana
over a million dollars during and after the Civil War.
From the countryside came agricultural produce including cotton, wool, and flour, as well as timber.
Industry within Madison also enjoyed the location on the river. After 1878, Madison was home to the
Schroeder Saddletree Company, which supplied wooden saddle frames to saddle makers across the
nation and in Latin America. Madison was renowned for its saddle tree production, an industry that
flourished due to river and rail transportation.

Employees of Schroeder Saddletree
Company pose at the plant located on
Milton Street between Mulberry and
Jefferson Streets , ca. 1900.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

13

History
The dominance of steamboats on the river influenced Madison’s shipbuilding industry, another
major industry begun in the 1830s in Madison and continuing into Civil War years. Madison shipyards
supplied the Union navy with vessels, and repaired and upgraded seized Confederate ships. One
famous ship from Madison was originally built for the United States Mail Line. Named in honor of
her hometown, the City of Madison served the Union carrying war supplies into Tennessee and on to
Vicksburg. The City of Madison was docked and being loaded with more ammunition for the
impending departure to Natchez, when tragedy befell the ship and crew. Two eyewitnesses report
that a carelessly dropped box of shells set off the disastrous explosion that tore apart the ship, killing
many aboard and damaging nearby vessels. Official Records of both armies, however, indicated the
detonation may have been orchestrated by Confederate arsonists.

A depiction of the explosion of the
City of Madison at Vicksburg’s port
during the Civil War, from the article
“The Age of Steam.”

14

Madison Design Review Guidelines

History
After the war, Madison ‘s industry continued to expand, as several iron foundries manufactured ornate, elaborate wrought irons gates, fences, and balcony railings that can still be seen throughout
the city. Several local brickyards also enjoyed booming business as Madison’s growth continued.

At left is an example of the intricate iron designs
from Madison foundries. This lyre motif design
spans a balcony at 306 West Main Street.

1895 map of Jefferson County,
Indiana, showing Madison's location on the river and its rail line to
North Vernon.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

15

History
In 1868, the locomotive Ruben Wells
was designed to work the incline at
Madison without the use of a rack and
pinion system.

Just as steamboats had expanded Madison’s industry, railroads also influenced new businesses. New
railcars were built, and old ones repaired in Madison. The Southwestern Car Company sold railcars
across the country. During the late nineteenth century , as rails eclipsed rivers as the primary
conduits of transportation, steamboats enjoyed a renewed popularity as excursion boats. Cruising
America’s rivers, these boats offered luxurious lodging accommodations, music stages, dance floors,
and gambling saloons, as well as scenery. Located halfway between Louisville, Kentucky, and
Cincinnati, Ohio, Madison enjoyed daily excursion boat opportunities .

Early 20th century photo of recreational riverboat at Madison.

While railroads served to expand Madison’s industry during the nineteenth century, they did the
same for other smaller towns in the interior of Indiana and also larger cities to the west. As these
markets grew, they competed with Madison’s. By the 1920s, Madison had lost its dominance as a
railroad market. At the same time, automobiles were replacing the tourism business of riverboat
travel. As a result, little new construction occurred in the city after the 1930s and its architectural
character reflects its earlier prosperity.

16

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
One-Part Commercial Block

Buildings in downtown Madison can be characterized as One-Part or Two-Part building types. A OnePart commercial building is generally one-story and has a storefront with display windows on
bulkheads such as at this building at 601 West Main Street (left). The example on the right at 313
West Main Street features an elaborate cornice above the storefronts.

Two-Part Commercial Block
Most commercial buildings in downtown
Madison can be characterized in form as
“Two-Part” commercial blocks, meaning
they have two primary components –
storefronts and upper facades. Original
storefronts
feature display windows
resting on bulkheads, transoms, and
entrances with glass and wood doors.
Upper facades have one or more floors of
windows and decorative detailing such as
brick, concrete or terra cotta panels and
cornices at rooflines. These buildings on
Main Street are representative of
Madison’s Two-Part commercial blocks.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

17

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
cornice

upper facade

Storefront:
transom
display
window

bulkhead

This drawing shows a typical late nineteenth and early twentieth century commercial building and
identifies some of its components. Downtown Madison is comprised largely of similar buildings.

Row of commercial buildings on West Main Street has both one– and two-part buildings.

18

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
Federal 1830-1860

The Federal style is associated with the
early Republic, when the nation’s founders
sought to emulate the ancient
democracies of Greece and the republican
values of Rome. Architectural design
principles emphasized order, balance and
pure form. This was a marked contrast
with the English Gothic style, which was
associated with feudalism. At left: 318
Mulberry; below: 306-308 Jefferson Street.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

19

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
Greek Revival 1820-1860

The Greek Revival style was used more for residences and public buildings but a few commercial
buildings also display the basic elements of this style. The Greek Revival style emphasized symmetry
and was based on the architecture of ancient Greece. Commercial buildings in this style have simple
stone lintels over the windows and plain cornices or cornices decorated with dentils. The building at
411 West Main Street reflects this style.

20

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
Italianate 1840-1885

Downtown Madison is composed primarily of Italianate style buildings. The buildings at 220 West
Main Street (above) and at 123 East Main Street (left), represent the Italianate style, with tall
windows topped with prominent hoods and elaborate bracketing at the cornices. The city's cornices
and window hood moldings are of wood, cast iron and sheet metal and a variety of styles and
designs are displayed downtown.

Second Empire 1860-1880
At left, the Masonic Lodge at 217-219 East Main Street represents
the Second Empire style. The style was prominently used in nineteenth century France, when Napoleon undertook an architectural
transformation of Paris. The style is largely Italianate and features
the signature , box-like Mansard roof. In the U.S. the style was also
know as the General Grant style, as it rose in popularity during the
administration of Ulysses Grant.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

21

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
Classical Revival 1900-1955

The Classical Revival style recalls the symmetrical and unadorned architecture of the nation’s
colonial period. Pilasters divide the storefront into a balanced façade at 410-418 Mulberry Street ,
above.

Tapestry Brick 1900-1930
At right: 125-127 East Main Street is an example of
Tapestry brick design. Tapestry brick, a texturedsurface brick, sometimes used in varying colors, was
popular in commercial buildings of the early twentieth century. In contrast to the Italianate style, buildings featuring Tapestry brick emphasized a balanced
form rather than decorative embellishments. The
buildings were long and narrow and from one to
three stories in height. They featured common bond
“tapestry brick” brick with vertical lines, said to resemble a tapestry.

22

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Commercial Architectural Styles and Building Types
Modernistic 1920-1960
Art Moderne buildings, exemplified by this former gas station, now a welcome center, have smooth
exterior surfaces and geometric decorative motifs. Art Moderne is typically a commercial, rather
than residential, style. Art Moderne emphasizes glossy surfaces and curved edges.

The Art Moderne style may also have features of vertical emphasis, such as the pilasters along the
side elevation of this building on East Second Street.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

23

Madison Historic District Board of Review
The Madison Historic District was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. Listing on
the National Register is an honorary designation and provides some protection from federally– or
state-funded projects that might have an adverse effect on historic resources, but it does not provide
historic buildings with any protection from privately-funded activities. In order to protect and
preserve its architectural character, the City of Madison adopted a historic preservation ordinance in
1982. The purpose of the Historic District Ordinance was “to safeguard the heritage of the city by
establishing a historic district” thereby establishing “the means of protecting the district’s natural
and man-made heritage while providing guidelines for compatible new architectural development.”
The ordinance created the Historic District Board of Review (HDBR) which oversees and applies the
provisions of the Historic District Ordinance. It comprises seven members, appointed by the mayor,
with the approval of City Council. Three members of the Board of Review must reside within the
Historic District and all seven must own or lease property in the Historic District.
Certificate of Appropriateness
Buildings and structures within the Madison Historic District must receive a Certificate of
Appropriateness (COA) prior to the initiation of planned work. A COA is a form issued to ensure that
the exterior work planned for a building's rehabilitation or new construction meets the criteria of the
design guidelines. A Building Permit is a separate form and type of review which ensures the
structural soundness and safety of the building. The COA needs to be obtained in addition to the
regular Building Permit. A representative example of a COA is located after the appendices.
The Design Review Process
Within the Madison Historic District, a COA is required for the following:
Demolition of any building or structure.
Moving any building or structure.
Conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of existing buildings by additions,
reconstruction, or alteration other than changes in color.
Any new construction of a principal building or accessory building or structure subject to
view from a public street.
Change in the type of material or in the design of an existing sidewalk as well as changes
in existing walls and fences or construction of new walls and fences, if along public
street right-of-ways.
Addition or alterations to signs.

24

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Madison Historic District Board of Review
Routine Maintenance and Minor Actions
Minor actions that are considered routine maintenance generally do not require a COA application.
Ordinary maintenance and repair is defined in the ordinance as: “Any work whose purpose and effect
is to correct any deterioration or decay of or damage to a structure and any part thereof, and to restore the same as nearly as may be practicable, to its original condition prior to the occurrence of
such deterioration, decay, or damage. Painting is considered to be ordinary maintenance and repair.”
Complete a COA Application and obtain a COA prior to beginning the work.
Whenever a property owner desires to make any alteration to a property within the Historic District
that requires the issuance of a COA (see previous page) the owner must initiate the process, prior to
the beginning of any work, by completing a COA Application. The Application from may be obtained
from the Building Inspector’s Office at the Madison City Hall, 101 West Main Street. Upon receiving a
completed Application, the Building Inspector will promptly transmit the application and all supporting documentation to the HDBR to determine the appropriateness and the architectural compatibility of the alterations proposed in each Application. Property owners and applicants are encouraged
to consult the Design Guidelines manuals as they are preparing their preliminary plans.
COA Application Requirements
In order to have a project reviewed, the property owner or a representative is required to submit the
following at the time of application:
(1) Structure plan. A front elevation drawing including proposed signage, and type of
surface material. Side elevations shall also be included where there are no adjoining buildings. Not required for demolition.
(2)
Site plan. A drawing showing the location, dimensions, and arrangements of all
open spaces and yards, including type and size of all planting materials, type of surface materials, methods to be employed for screening and proposed grades. Not required for demolition.
(3) Photographs. A photograph of the front of the property which is the subject of application is required. Other photographs of adjoining lots and other views of subject property
are recommended.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

25

Madison Historic District Board of Review
Below are examples of appropriate drawings for submittal with application for a COA

An overhead view of a porch sketch.

Above and below are elevation drawing examples.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

27

Madison Historic District Board of Review
The HDRB and Design Review
The Historic District Review Board (HDRB) emphasizes preservation over repair, repair rather than
replacement, and replacement in kind if repair is not feasible. In conducting its review the HDRB will
review Certificates of Appropriateness with the following approach:

Property owners and applicants are encouraged to first consider preserving, maintaining and
repairing original or historic building features.

If such features and elements cannot be preserved, maintained and repaired, replacement in kind
is then recommended. Materials should ideally be replaced with the same materials and with
profiles, dimensions, and textures to match the original as closely as possible.

If replacement in kind is not feasible or practical, the HDRB will consider the use of substitute
materials under some circumstances. Any features that are changed or replaced shall be
substantiated with documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence. Any historic elements that
are removed should be donated to an architectural salvage, such as Historic Madison.

Throughout the manual a number of terms are frequently used to reflect the general approach the
HDRB will consider when making its decisions. These terms and their interpretation are as follows:

Appropriate: Rehabilitation and new construction actions especially suitable or compatible with the
design guideline standards.

Acceptable/Permissible/Approvable: These terms are used in the guidelines to identify
rehabilitation and new construction actions which will be approved under most circumstances.
Although these actions may not be the ideal approach to a design issue, they will meet the intent of
the guidelines sufficiently to warrant approval.

Recommended: Suggested, but not mandatory actions outlined in the design guidelines.

28

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Madison Historic District Board of Review
Follow Other Requirements and Coordinate Your Work For Existing Historical and New Construction
In addition to the HDRB’s design review, Local Ordinance and Building Codes must be followed. The
city's Building Inspector can provide information on building code requirements. New construction
must be thoughtfully considered to ensure compatibility with historic buildings. There may also be
properties in the historic district that need to meet provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
Oversight and Enforcement
If plans change while work is in progress, contact the HDRB before undertaking a change or deviation
from the COA. Work undertaken contrary to original approval in a COA or beyond the scope of the
COA requires approval from the HDRB. If work is undertaken without obtaining a COA then a violation will occur and the following steps may be taken:
Persons in violation of or who fail to comply with any provision of the historic district ordinance or
COA process will be guilty of a Class A infraction and subject to penalties. Each day such violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
The HDRB, Building Inspector and any designated enforcement official may institute relief in the
Jefferson Circuit Court to restrain an individual, corporation or government unit from violating the provisions of the city’s historic district ordinance.
For further information regarding applying for a Certificate of Appropriateness, please contact the
Building Inspector’s office at 812-265-8324.

Design guidelines help
to preserve historic
features such as this
cornice at 116 West
Main Street.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

29

Madison Historic District Board of Review
The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties
The Madison Historic District Design Guideline Manual follows the guidelines set forth by the National Park Service. Known as the "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Treatment of Historic
Properties with Illustrated Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring, and Reconstructing Historic Buildings," these guidelines are used throughout the country by the majority of
America's boards and preservation commissions as a basis for local design review guidelines and for
projects utilizing federal funds or tax credits. The Standards were originally published in 1977 and revised in 1990 as part of Department of the Interior regulations. They pertain to historic buildings of
all materials, construction types, sizes, and occupancy and encompass the exterior and the interior of
historic buildings. The Standards also encompass related landscape features and the building's site
and environment as well as attached, adjacent or related new construction. The “Standards” are
found in Appendix A of this manual and are also available on line at www.cr.nps.gov/hps/tps. This
web site also provides information on technical aspects of restoration and rehabilitation including
“Preservation Briefs.” Preservation Briefs are excellent summaries of various design guideline and
building rehabilitation issues provided free on-line. Copies of the “Preservation Briefs” are also available at the Madison-Jefferson County Public Library courtesy of the Cornerstone Society.

Numerous historic rehabilitation projects
have taken place downtown such as the
building at 125-127 East Main Street. Preserving the character of Madison's Historic
District is the intent of the design guidelines. The design guidelines for Madison are
similar to those used nationally to ensure
consistency in review and eligibility for federal and state tax credits.

30

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Architectural Features
Historic architectural features commonly found in Madison’s commercial downtown include cast
-iron, brick, or terra-cotta pilasters, columns, and capitals; brick or metal cornices; brick window
surrounds; and decorative tiled entryways. These features are important stylistic elements and
should be retained, maintained, and, if needed, repaired to match the original as closely as
possible.
1. Historic architectural features should be retained and maintained.
2. Historic architectural features should remain visible and not be concealed.
3. Only serious staining should warrant cleaning. In general, water, mild detergent, and brushes are
appropriate cleaning tools.
4. When repairing deteriorated or damaged historic architectural features, use methods that allow
them to retain their historic appearance and as much of the building’s historic fabric as possible.
5. For decaying wood, it is appropriate to apply epoxy to strengthen damaged areas and fill in small
openings. For large areas of decay, remove damaged wood areas and replace with appropriate
wood, also known as a Dutchman’s repair. Synthetic siding is not an appropriate replacement
material.
6. For lightly rusted metal features, hand scraping or chipping or use of a wire brush may be used to
remove rust and damaged paint. If rusting is heavy, alternative methods include low pressure grit
or sand blasting and chemical treatment. These methods are more hazardous and should be
undertaken with professional help. For their protection, adjacent materials such as brick, glass,
and wood should always be covered during grit blasting. Metal pieces should be primed with an
appropriate primer and painted immediately following rust and paint removal.

The decorative window cornice at 320 Central Street (right) and the art glass window at 324 East Second Street (left) are essential features to these buildings and should be preserved and maintained.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

31

Architectural Features
7. Architectural features should not be added to buildings where none historically existed.
8. Replace missing or severely damaged historic architectural features with examples that replicate
the original or other historic examples that appear to be appropriate to the building being worked
on, based on physical evidence.

Right: Historic cast iron features such as the
pilasters at 213 West Main Street are well preserved and should not be covered or concealed. Below: The distinctive Luxfer glass
transom at 110 East Main Street should not be
removed or permanently concealed.

The Fire Company at 405
East Main Street has a rebuilt weathervane, "Little
Jimmy" based on a historic
design. Features like this
add to the unique character
of downtown Madison.

32

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Architectural Features
Architectural features of cast iron, decorative metal and terra cotta are found
throughout the downtown area. These
features are important elements of
their buildings and should be preserved.
At left, top: 116 West Main Street; middle: 115 West Main Street; bottom: 208
West Main Street.
Below: 101 East Main Street

Madison Design Review Guidelines

33

Awnings
Historically, shopkeepers commonly used awnings on their storefronts. Not only did they
provide shelter for shoppers, but they also helped in heating and cooling the building. As air
conditioning became more common after the 1940s, awning use declined. Awnings add historic
character to storefronts and their use is appropriate for downtown commercial buildings.
1. The addition of awnings to commercial buildings is appropriate if they are of traditional design, materials, and placement. Awning colors should be compatible with and complementary to the building. Avoid harsh or overly bright colors. Awnings should be installed below the cornice or transom.
2. Storefronts and upper facade windows are both appropriate locations for awnings.
3. Awnings may be retractable or fixed in place and should fit the opening to which they are applied.
Shed awnings are appropriate for rectangular openings while arched awnings are appropriate for
arched openings.
4. Shed awnings are most appropriate for commercial buildings in Madison. The use of bubble, concave, or convex forms is not recommended. Internally lit awnings are also less appropriate.
5. Transom lights of prism glass or stained glass should not be covered by permanent, fixed awnings.
6. Awnings should be of canvas duck or cotton/polyester blend; vinyl is not appropriate. Metal, wood,
or plastic awnings are not appropriate and should not be added to storefronts of historic buildings.
7. Installation of awning hardware should not damage historic materials and features of the building.

The installation of these awnings is appropriate. On the left, the awning fits within the storefront display area without overlapping the outer piers. On the right, upper windows and a secondary entryway have individual awnings that fit within the openings.

34

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Awnings
The shed awnings at 410-418
Mulberry Street are
appropriately sized to cover
only the individual storefronts,
not covering the pilasters in
between.

The shed canvas awning
at 118 West Main Street is
appropriate in its design
and materials.

The photograph above depicts Madison’s commercial district ca. 1850. Storefront
awnings can be seen on several buildings.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

35

Brickwork/Masonry
Historic commercial buildings in downtown Madison are of brick, stone or concrete
construction. If properly maintained, masonry can last indefinitely. The keys to brick and mortar
preservation are to keep water out and to apply a soft mortar when repairs are needed.
Abrasive cleaning of historic brick should not occur.
1. Original brick, stone, terra cotta, cast concrete and other masonry original to a building should be
preserved and maintained.
2. Masonry should never be subjected to any kind of abrasive cleaning such as sandblasting.
3. Do not clean or remove paint from masonry with high pressure water that exceeds 600 pounds
per square inch.
4. The use of detergent cleansers to remove dirt or grime from masonry is acceptable. When
cleaning brick it is advisable to test a small area first to ensure the procedure and cleaning agent
are compatible with the masonry.
5. The use of silicone-based water sealants on masonry walls is not recommended. Water sealants
do not allow the brick to “breathe” and can trap moisture within inside walls. Refer to the
National Park Service: Technical Preservation Services’ Preservation Brief #1 for advice, available
at http://www.nps.giv/history/hps/TPS/briefs01.htm.
6. Masonry that has never been painted should remain unpainted unless the brick and mortar is
extremely mismatched from earlier repairs or patching. Buildings which have been sandblasted
and show significant brick and mortar erosion may be painted to help seal the masonry surface. In
Madison, during the nineteenth century, painting brick was a common practice purely for
aesthetic reasons. These historically painted surfaces should be maintained.
7. Original masonry surfaces should not be stuccoed.
8. Historic masonry should remain visible and untreated. Exceptions are if bricks have lost their
protective outer coating, in which case paint may be used for preservation, or if repairs have failed
to stop water from getting into bricks, in which case water-repellant coatings might be used.

Power tools are damaging
and should be avoided when
removing mortar. Hand tools
are preferred since they allow
for precision work and brick
preservation.

36

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Brickwork/Masonry
9. Original mortar should be preserved but if repointing is necessary, historic compounds such as one
part hydrated lime and three parts sand should be used. Portland cement is also acceptable for
chimney tops, parapets walls, or other situations requiring extra strength. The recommended formula is one part white Portland cement, two parts hydrated lime, and nine parts sand. Use of
Portland cement conforms to the advice in NPS Preservation Brief #2 available at http://
www.nps.giv/history/hps/TPS/briefs02.htm. The use of inflexible or hard mortars will not allow
masonry to expand and contract properly.
10. When re-pointing brick, the mortar should match the original mortar in its width, depth, color,
profile, and composition. When re-pointing brick test a small area first to ensure the procedure is
compatible with the masonry.
11. The bonding pattern in replacement masonry should match the historic pattern.

The building at 125-127 East Main Street is an example of the Tapestry Brick form, a popular commercial building design of the early twentieth century. This brick exterior should be preserved and
not painted or concealed.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

37

Cast Iron and Metal
Downtown Madison contains many notable buildings that display cast iron columns and
pilasters on storefronts and sheet metal cornices and hood molding on upper facades. These
historic materials should be preserved and maintained. Repair and replacement should be with
materials that match the original and will not promote corrosion.
1. Cast iron and sheet metal original to a building should be preserved and maintained. The removal
of added storefront materials to expose original cast iron and sheet metal is encouraged.
2. Sheet metal surfaces should be kept painted and cleaned with detergent cleansers. Cast iron may
be cleaned using abrasive methods as long as the pressure does not pit or erode the surface. When
cleaning metal surfaces it is advisable to test a small area first to ensure the procedure does not
harm the historic material.
3. Repair or replacement should be with compatible metals. If an appropriate substitute material can
effectively replicate the design and appearance of a damaged or missing feature, its use may be
appropriate.

Cast iron pilasters, such as those
at 227 East Main Street, should
be preserved and maintained.

38

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Cast Iron and Metal

Row of cast iron columns at 313-327 West Main Street

Mesker & Co. Ironworks emblem at 116 West
Main Street. The Mesker Company of Evansville,
Indiana manufactured a number of cast iron columns downtown.

Cast iron columns at 104 East Main Street.
Madison Design Review Guidelines

39

Doors and Entrances
Doors are often an important visual element to a storefront. Historic entrances and doors
should be retained, maintained, and, if needed, repaired. Missing or severely deteriorated doors
should be replaced with historically appropriate doors. Screen, storm, and security doors should
not detract from the historic appearance of their building.

The original doors at 318 West Main Street (left) should be retained and maintained. If the original
doors are missing, new doors of single-light glass and wood design such as at 104 East Main Street
are appropriate (right).
1. Historic doors should be retained and maintained.
2. Primary entrances to commercial buildings should be accessible to meet ADA requirements. If
this is not possible, alternative entrances should be available, clearly marked, and maintained to
the same standards as the primary entrance.
3. If historic doors do not allow for universal access, they should be retrofitted to meet standards.
4. Deteriorated or damaged historic doors should be repaired using methods that allow them to retain their historic fabric as possible. Replace deteriorated wood with in-kind material, also known
as a “Dutchman” repair. Epoxy is helpful in strengthening and replacing deteriorated wood.
5. Owners are encouraged to replace missing or severely damaged unserviceble historic doors with
new doors that replicate the originals or other historic examples.

40

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Doors and Entrances

Main entryways should have doors made of wood or dark anodized metal with
clear-glass single-light openings such as those in the above photo. These are
appropriate replacement doors for a commercial building where the original or
historic doors are missing. (222 East Main Street.)
6. Clear-glass single-light or multiple-light, painted wood doors are usually appropriate for replacing
missing original primary doors in the district’s commercial buildings. The opening in secondary
entrances may be smaller or doors may be solid wood. Dark or bronze-anodized metal, though
less appropriate, may be substituted for wood.
7. New screen doors should be sympathetic to the style of the building, have a wood or aluminum
frame, and be full view or have structural members that align with those of the door.
8. Storm doors should be full view and of baked-on enamel or anodized aluminum and should be
painted or finished to match the other trim and be as inconspicuous as possible.
9. Security doors may be used on doors not visible from the street.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

41

Doors and Entrances

Retroffiting existing doors with automatic door openers can help
meet ADA requirements.

The use of automatic door openers
with push plates is also an alternative to meet ADA door requirements
on downtown commercial buildings.

42

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Fire Escapes and Staircases
Fire escapes are important safety features as a means of escape from upper floors. However, as
they are modern additions to historic buildings, they should not be visible from the street and
should be sited on rear elevations.
1. Fire escapes and staircases should be located on rear elevations or otherwise located so that they
are not visible from the street.
2. The addition of fire escapes should not damage architectural features.
3. Fire escapes may be either open or enclosed.
4. If enclosed, fire escape surfaces should be of wood siding, brick veneer, or stucco.
5. If open, fire escape surfaces should be of metal or wood.

Fire stairs may be of wood or metal design and sited at the rear or side facades of commercial buildings. This example at the rear of 214 East Main Street is of wood construction.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

43

Gutters and Downspouts
Using well-maintained gutters and downspouts helps to protect buildings from water damage.
If new gutters are required, half-round designs are the most appropriate.

1. Gutters and downspouts should be used and maintained.
2. Existing boxed or built-in gutters should be retained.
3. Deteriorated or damaged boxed or built-in gutters should be repaired.
4. If new gutters are needed, the most appropriate design for hanging gutters is half round. For
buildings dating from or influenced by designs from the 1940s or later, ogee gutters are also appropriate.
5. Downspouts should be installed so as to avoid damage to architectural features.

Gutters, downspouts, and splashblocks
should be used. Half-round gutters, as
shown above, are most appropriate. Ogee
gutters, below, are also acceptable.

Examples of appropriate gutters and downspouts on commercial buildings at 311 West Main Street (left) and 308310 West Main Street (right).

44

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Lighting
Any historic light fixtures remaining downtown should be retained and maintained. New light
fixtures should be unobtrusive in design, materials, and placement.
1. Historic light fixtures should be retained and maintained.
2. Deteriorated or damaged historic light fixtures should be repaired using methods that allow
them to retain their historic appearance.
3. Owners are encouraged to replace missing or severely damaged historic light fixtures with replacements that replicate the originals or other historic examples in appearance and materials.
4. If modern light fixtures are desired as replacements or where light fixtures previously did not exist, they should be unobtrusive, conceal the light source, and direct light toward the building.
5. Light fixtures should not damage or obscure architectural features or other building elements.

Other appropriate commercial
lighting fixtures.

Swan-neck fixtures in dark metal
are appropriate new light fixtures
for commercial buildings, as at 313
West Main Street, above and below.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

45

Paint
Paint colors are not reviewed by the HDRB. Property owners are encouraged to use colors consistent with the building's architectural style and period.
1. The painted surface of historically painted buildings or features should be maintained.
2. New building features of the type that were historically painted, such as metal or wood trim,
should be painted and the painted surface maintained.
3. Buildings which have not been previously painted should not be painted. Refer to the National
Park Service: Technical Preservation Services’ Preservation Brief #1 for advice, available at
http://www.nps.giv/history/hps/TPS/briefs02.htm.
4. Should owners wish to remove paint from historically unpainted buildings, they should first insure
that paint is not protecting bricks with damaged surfaces. Non-abrasive methods such
a
s
chemical cleaning, hand-scraping, or hand-sanding should be used in removal. Electric heat guns
and heat plates are advised with caution because these tools are fire hazards. Abrasive or highpressure removal methods are destructive and should never be used.
5. While paint colors are not reviewed by the HDRB, there are traditional colors which are
appropriate for Madison's commercial buildings. Property owners are encouraged to consult with
the HDRB prior to initiating work to get recommendations for particular styles. The HDRB
can
also provide paint recommendations for the body of the building as well as trim colors.

The paint colors chosen at 220 West Main Street are appropriate for the Italianate style.

46

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Roofs
Roofs help to determine building style and are important elements of historic appearance.
Historic roof shapes should be retained. Public visibility of modern features should be limited.
1. The historic roof shapes of buildings should be retained. Most commercial roof forms in Madison
are flat, sloping, hipped or gable.
2. Roof-related features such as parapet walls, cornices, and chimneys should be retained and
maintained.
3. New roof elements such as skylights, solar panels, decks, balconies, and satellite dishes should
not be visible from the street.
4. Maintain historic roof materials such as slate and sheet metal, especially where they are visible
from the street. Roof elements such as flashing and valleys should also be kept in good repair.

The roofs of downtown commercial buildings like these on West Main Street are typically flat, gable
or hipped. Historic roof shapes should be retained. Modern elements such as skylights, solar panels,
and satellite dishes should be concealed at rear roof lines or behind parapet walls and cornices.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

47

Signs
Commercial buildings traditionally have had a variety of sign designs and placement, allowing
for wide flexibility for their use downtown. Signs are important elements in the historic and
commercial character of the downtown business district and historic signage should be retained
and maintained. All signs within the Madison Historic District require a Certificate of Appropriateness, including new signs and alterations to existing signs, except for regular maintenance.
All signs must follow the specific requirements of the city’s sign ordinance, 151.36, available at
http://www.madison-in.gov/ .
1. Historic signs (including neon signs, where possible) should be preserved, maintained, and repaired.
2. New signs should be of traditional materials such as wood, glass, copper or bronze letters. Sandblasted wood signs are appropriate. Plastic, substrate or unfinished wood signs are not recommended.
3. Signs should be sized in proportion to the building. Avoid oversized signs.
4. Buildings should have no more than three signs, not counting signs painted on windows.
5. Signs that resemble logos or symbols for businesses are encouraged.
6. Signs should have no more than two 0r three colors; colors should be coordinated with overall
building colors.
7. Serif, Sans Serif or Script lettering are traditional styles for signs. Letters should not exceed 18
inches in height or cover more than 60% of the total sign area.
8. Traditional sign locations include storefront beltcourses, upper facade walls (not to exceed 20%
of the overall wall surface), hanging or mounted inside windows, or projecting from the face of
the building. Movable sandwich boards or “menu easels” are also allowable downtown . They
should be placed on the sidewalk in front of the business one foot from the curb during business
hours only and should not exceed a total size of 42” x 24” (H x W).
9. Temporary signs such as banners or window graphics should be displayed no more than 30 days
and should not exceed ten square feet in size and contain no more than five square feet of text.
10. Signs should be installed in such a way that no damage occurs to historic materials. Mounting
brackets and hardware for signs should be anchored into mortar, not masonry.
11. Lighting for signs should be concealed; spot– or up-lighting is appropriate for signs. Internally lit
signs are not appropriate for downtown areas.

48

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Signs

This drawing shows appropriate locations for commercial signage. No
more than three signs should be used per building.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

49

Signs
A wall sign, as this one (left) on East Main
Street, is historically appropriate.

Logo signs are an appropriate and creative way to advertise
a retail business. At right, 115 West Main Street.

The welcome center
sign at left is an
appropriate example
of a free-standing,
metal sign.

Sandwich boards are also appropriate in a
commercial area (222 East Main Street).
Historic painted wall signs and “ghost”
signs should be preserved and maintained, not painted over. (West Street)

50

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Signs

Historic metal and neon signs, as at 204 West Main Street, should be preserved wherever possible.

Projecting wood signs are appropriate for businesses,
as at 313 Broadway (left) and 318 West Main Street (right).

Madison Design Review Guidelines

51

Storefronts
Storefronts are defining elements of the commercial and historic character of the downtown
business district. Historic storefronts should be retained, maintained, and, if needed, repaired
and should not be covered or concealed.
1. Historic storefronts and their components, such as display windows, bulkheads, transoms, doors,
cornices, pillars, and pilasters, should be retained and maintained.
2. Historic storefronts and their components should not be covered with modern materials.
3. Deteriorated or damaged storefronts or components should be repaired so that the storefront
retains its historic appearance. Repairs should be made with in-kind materials, based on physical
or documentary evidence whenever possible.
4. Missing storefronts or components should be replaced so that they replicate the historic
storefront or other historic examples that appear to be appropriate to the building being worked
on, based on physical evidence.

Original wood bulkheads and display
windows remain at the storefront at
318 West Main Street.

52

This original storefront at 104 East Main
Street possesses many typical elements:
display windows, bulkheads, and transoms. It
also retains its original cast iron columns.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Storefronts
The building at 113 West Main Street exemplifies the standard
components of an early twentieth-century commercial storefront.

Upper facade

Projecting sign

Wall sign

Transom

Display window

Bulkhead

Recessed entry

Madison Design Review Guidelines

53

Storefronts

At left, this rebuilt storefront at 108 East
Main Street mimics the traditional
design of and is compatible with historic
storefronts of downtown Madison.

Historic marble bulkheads, such as at 110 East Main Street,
should be preserved.

54

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Storefronts
STOREFRONTS ADDED TO EARLIER BUILDINGS
Downtown Madison has a number of 19th and early 20th century buildings with storefronts remodeled
during a later time period. Storefronts from the 1920s to the 1940s reflect an important movement in
merchandising and sales of the period and also are highly decorative in their designs. Materials such
as marble, tile, and tinted glass, commonly known as “Carrara” glass, were all used to update storefronts during these decades. In many cases these storefronts are significant and should be preserved
and maintained in any future building rehabilitation. Storefronts remodeled within the past fifty
years are generally not compatible with overall building character and their removal may be appropriate when rehabilitation is undertaken. Such storefronts should be replaced with traditional designs or with designs based on the original appearance of the storefront, if known.

Storefronts that were rebuilt or remodeled in the 1930s and 1940s should be preserved such as this
storefront at 222 East Main Street, featuring Carrara glass, a popular treatment applied to commercial
architecture from the 1920s through 1940s.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

55

Windows
Many of the commercial buildings in Madison retain their original wood sash windows on the upper floors. Original windows should be preserved, maintained, or repaired. Windows should not
be concealed, enclosed or covered. If replacements are necessary, they should match the original in size, materials, and number and arrangement of lights.
1. Historic windows should be retained and maintained.
2. Historic windows should not be covered or painted.
3. Deteriorated or damaged windows should be repaired so that the windows retain their historic
appearances, replacing removed sections with in-kind materials. Use epoxy to strengthen deteriorated wood.
4. Replace missing panes or sashes rather than entire windows. If 80% of the window is damaged
and/or missing, and windows must be replaced, use designs that replicate the missing historic
windows or other historic examples that appear to be appropriate to the building being worked
on, based on physical evidence.
The windows in these historic buildings are important elements of their
appearance. They should be retained and maintained.

5. Replacement windows should be of wood to match the original. Historic shutters should be retained and maintained.
6. Shutters should be added only if the building historically had them. Replacements replicate historic shutters, fit the window opening when closed, and are constructed of painted wood.

56

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Windows

Replacement windows should fit the
historic openings and replicate the
appearance of historic windows used
on the building or similar buildings.

7. Screen and storm windows should be constructed of painted wood, baked-on enamel, anodized
aluminum, or painted-to-match-the-frames mill-finish aluminum.
8. Screen and storm windows should fit within the window frames.
9. Storm windows should be full-view design or have a central meeting rail that overlaps that of the
window. The use of full-view interior storm windows is also appropriate.

yes

yes

no

no

no

no

no

no

no

no

no

no

Preserve and maintain historic windows; do not enclose or alter original window openings.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

57

Windows
Why Preserving Original Windows is Recommended and Makes Economic Sense
The Madison Historic District Review Board requires the preservation and retention of historic wood
and metal windows unless the windows are clearly proven to be deteriorated beyond repair. The reasons for preserving original windows include:
Rebuilding historic wood windows and adding storm windows makes them as efficient as new vinyl
windows and more than offsets the cost of installation. A comprehensive window study in Vermont in 1997 found that a weatherstripped wood window with an added storm window was as
energy efficient as most new vinyl thermo-pane windows. Several other studies since this time
have supported these findings. (Sources: Home Energy Magazine Online, September/October
1997 "Creating Windows of Energy-Saving Opportunity" and APT Bulletin 36:4, 2005 "What Replacement Windows Can't Replace: The Real Cost of Removing Historic Windows."
In most cases, windows account for only about one-fourth of a home’s heat loss. Insulating the attic,
walls and basement is a much more economical approach to reducing energy costs.
The old-growth lumber used in historic window frames can last indefinitely, unlike new-growth wood
or vinyl. Old growth windows have a tighter grain and better quality than most new growth wood
windows.
All windows expand and contract with temperature changes. However, vinyl expands more than
twice as much as wood and seven times more than glass. This often results in failed seals between the frame and glass and a significant performance reduction. Vinyl windows have a high
failure rate – more than one-third of all windows being replaced today are less than ten years old.
Any energy savings from replacing wood windows with aluminum or vinyl seldom justifies the costs
of installation. For most houses, it would take decades to recover the initial cost of installation
and with a life expectancy of 25 years or less, installing new vinyl or aluminum windows does not
make good economic sense.
Most vinyl windows don’t look like historic wood windows; their texture and thinness are inappropriate for Madison’s historic buildings. A more acceptable alternative if the original windows are beyond reasonable repair are aluminum clad wood windows with baked enamel finishes.
Historic wood and metal windows are sustainable. They represent embodied energy, are made of
materials natural to the environment and are renewable.

58

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Windows

Adding storm windows over historic wood windows is a cost-effective approach
that preserves the original window and provides energy savings equal to new
replacement windows. The payback to the owner is much better as well.
(Courtesy the Old House Journal).

When replacing windows, it is important to understand U-value specifications of
available products. The U-value is a measurement of heat transfer through a
material, such as window glass. The lower the U-value, the better the insulation.
A U-value of .40 or lower is recommended for a North/Central and South/Central
climate. Manufacturers are required to affix label to their windows stating their
U-values.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

59

New Construction - Decks
Decks are popular modern features. If added to historic buildings, they should be constructed
on a building’s rear elevation or another location not visible from the street.
1. Decks should be located on the rear elevations of buildings. They may also be located on a side
elevation if screened from view from the street through fencing or plants or on the roof if
screened from view through placement or parapets.
2. Decks should be constructed of wood or metal.
3. Decks should be stained or painted so that their colors are compatible with those of their buildings.
4. Decks should be simple in design. Wood balusters should be less than three inches apart and less
than two inches in width and depth.

This rear deck is simple in design and is
not readily visible from the street.

60

Madison Design Review Guidelines

New Construction - Ramps
Most commercial entrances meet ADA requirements and do not require ramps. If they are
needed, simple concrete ramps are recommended for main entrances. Wood ramps may be
used on rear elevations.
1. Ramps should be constructed of concrete or wood and painted in colors compatible with those of
the building.
2. Ramps should be simple in design.
3. Ramps should be sited on rear elevations, if possible, rather than on primary façades.

Corner commercial buildings with raised steps at the front can be remodeled to allow for access
ramps such as this example.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

61

New Construction - Rear Additions
Rear and lateral additions provide owners with flexibility in their building use. Additions should
use design, materials, and placement that minimize their affect on the district’s historic character.
1. Additions should cause minimal damage or removal of historic walls, roofs, and features from historic buildings. Existing openings should be used to connect the building and the addition.
2. Additions should have little or no visibility from the primary street façade.

Shown is appropriate
placement for ground level
additions. Rear elevations
are generally appropriate
locations for additions,
though lateral additions
may also be made to side
elevations with limited
public visibility.

3. Additions should be compatible with the original building in scale, proportion, rhythm, and materials.
4. Additions should be distinguishable from the historic building: they should be smaller and simpler
in design.
5. Additions should be contemporary in design but compatible with adjacent buildings.

The location, scale, proportion,
rhythm, materials, and size of this
addition are all appropriate.

62

Madison Design Review Guidelines

New Construction - Roofline Additions
Rooftop additions provide owners with flexibility in their building use. Additions should use design, materials, and placement that minimize their affect on the district’s historic character.

1. Rooftop additions should not be visible from the street.
2. Rooftop additions should use similar roof forms to the buildings to which they are attached.
3. Additions should not cause the removal of character-defining materials and features.

Rooftop additions should be recessed so that they are not visible from the street.
Their roof forms should mimic the roof forms of the attached buildings.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

63

New Construction - Infill Buildings
Where historic buildings have been lost or where there are vacant lots, new construction is
encouraged to add to the streetscape and promote economic development. Infill construction in
Madison’s commercial area should be compatible with adjacent buildings in scale, height,
materials, orientation, shape, placement, and rhythm and proportion of openings.

1. Height and width of new buildings should be compatible with that of adjacent buildings.
2. New buildings should be constructed of materials that are compatible with adjacent buildings.
3. Set back of new buildings should be in line with adjacent existing buildings.
4. The roof form of new buildings should match those of adjacent buildings.
5. New buildings should be compatible with adjacent buildings in terms of scale and proportions.

On the left, inappropriate infill. As on the right, buildings should be set back a uniform distance of
several feet from the street to form a continuous wall of facades, and side walls are shared. Roofs are
flat or very slightly sloped. These patterns of construction should continue.

6. New construction should be oriented toward the major street.
7. New buildings should be contemporary but compatible in design to historic buildings.

64

Madison Design Review Guidelines

New Construction - Infill Buildings

If new construction will fill several footprints of missing historic buildings, it should have the appearance of traditional building widths.

Appropriate alignment: The sketch above illustrates new construction that
maintains traditional storefront and upper façade alignment. The sketch below
illustrates inappropriate alignment.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

65

New Construction - Infill Buildings

New buildings can be visually compatible with a neighborhood without being
imitations of the historic buildings that surround them.

Contemporary designs are appropriate if materials, scale, and alignment
are compatible with adjacent buildings.

66

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Streetscape Elements
Madison has invested in streetscape improvements in the downtown area including new lighting, planter boxes and ADA curb cuts.
1.

Madison’s commercial area should continue to be enhanced through streetscape elements
such as benches and planters.

2.

Major streetscape improvements considered in the future should be consistent with the historic character of the downtown area and follow traditional designs.

Added streetscape elements include ADA curb cuts at the corner of Main and Mulberry Streets,
planter boxes, benches, and landscaping.
3.

Landscaping should not damage historic buildings or conceal historic elements.

4.

Since landscaping was not historically common in downtown Madison, contemporary plans
should use plants with limited height and canopies.

5.

Outdoor furniture provided by the city should be of uniform appearance and historically appropriate materials, such as wrought iron, and not impede pedestrian flow.

Local businesses sponsoring the Neat Street
Program have their names featured on garbage receptacles.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

67

Parking Lots
Parking areas that are added to downtown Madison should be screened with landscaping. Owners are encouraged to add appropriate landscape features to their lots.
1. In planning and constructing parking lots, historic landscape elements, particularly buildings,
should be protected.
2. In the commercial downtown, parking lots should be located behind historic buildings and out of
pedestrian view.
3. A shared parking lot allows businesses or institutions with different peak use times maximum patronage. Such planning may also prevent the loss of historic buildings for more parking areas.
4. Parking and pedestrian areas should be clearly designated.

Parking areas added between buildings should be screened with landscaping in the same line as the
historic buildings. Parking lots at corners should be outlined with landscaping or low walls. Left,
above: 400 block of Mulberry Street; Right: corner of West and Third Streets.

68

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Utilities
Utilities such as garbage containers and mechanical systems are important to the functionality
of buildings and the district. Air conditioning and heating units should be sited at rear facades
or on rooftops., where they are not readily visible from the street. They should also be screened
with landscaping or fencing. Conduits should be painted to blend with the color of the building.

1. Garbage containers should be placed behind buildings and be screened from view using fencing
or plants.
2. Ground-mounted mechanical systems should be located behind or on top of buildings. If on the
ground, they should be screened from view using fencing or plants. If on top of buildings, they
should be set back or behind a parapet , not visible from the street.

These placements, one on a roof and set
back and the other flush with the wall along
a rear elevation, are appropriate for
mechanical systems. Mechanical systems
might also be screened with lattice work,
fencing, or plants.

3. Window mechanical systems should be located on the side or rear elevations; their visibility
should be as minimal as possible.
4. Meters, conduits, and other equipment should be located on rear elevations.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

69

Moving Buildings
Vacant downtown lots are appropriate locations for new construction or the relocation of buildings fifty years old or older. Moving commercial buildings is expensive and is generally considered a last resort to demolition. Moving buildings in the downtown area should be considered
only if other means of preservation have failed.
1. Moving a building or feature from its historic location should only occur if all other alternatives for
preservation have been explored.
2. Moving buildings into the downtown district may be appropriate if the building is compatible
with the district's architectural character in style, period, height, scale, materials, setting, and
placement on the lot.
3. Moving buildings that contribute to the historic and architectural character of a district should be
avoided unless demolition is the only alternative.

70

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Demolition
The buildings that contribute to the historic residential character of the historic district
neighborhoods are irreplaceable physical evidence of Madison’s past. The loss of any historic
building affects not only the individual building, but the surrounding landscape.
1. Demolition may be appropriate if the building does not contribute to the historic character of the
district.
2. Applicants for demolition should explore possibilities for selling or reusing historic buildings, preferably onsite but also in other locations, as alternatives to demolition. Applicants should consider
mothballing the building, which involves developing a strategy for halting deterioration, protecting from vandalism, and stabilizing the building structurally until such time that proper rehabilitation or restoration may commence.
3. Demolition may be appropriate if the denial of the demolition will result in a demonstrable economic hardship on the owner. Moving a building from its historic location will be approved only if
all other alternatives for preservation have been explored.
4. Demolition by neglect occurs when a building is allowed to deteriorate through lack of maintenance. It is a self-imposed hardship that will not be considered a mitigating circumstance when
determining economic hardship.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

71

Demolition
(A) Whenever a property owner shows that a building is incapable of earning an economic return on
its value, and the Board of Review fails to approve the issuance of a COA, such building may be demolished; provided, however, that before a demolition permit is issued, notice of proposed demolition shall be given as follows:
1. For buildings rated historic: 12 months
2. For unrated buildings: 2 months
(B) Notice shall be posted on the premises of the buildings or structure proposed for demolition in a
location clearly visible from the street, and shall also be published in a general circulation newspaper
at least three times prior to demolition, with the final notice published not less than fifteen days prior
to the date of permit.
(C) Criteria of the Board to consider in the case of proposed demolition:
1. Whether the building is in such a state of deterioration and disrepair or so structurally unstable as to make preservation, restoration, or rehabilitation impracticable.
2. Whether the removal of such a building would be detrimental to the character of the historic district, balancing the interest of the public with the interest of the owner.
3. Take into account and apprise the owner of a building of possible alternative to demolition.

72

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendices

A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
B: Basic Maintenance Advice
C: Definitions and Terms
D: Bibliography
E: Incentives and Assistance for Rehabilitation
F: Resources
G: Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

Madison Design Review Guidelines

73

Appendix A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Preservation
1. A property will be used as it was historically, or be given a new use that maximizes the retention
of distinctive materials, features, spaces, and spatial relationships. Where a treatment and use
have not been identified, a property will be protected and, if necessary, stabilized until additional
work may be undertaken.
2. The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The replacement of intact or
repairable historic materials or alteration of features, spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided.
3. Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Work needed to
stabilize, consolidate, and conserve existing historic materials and features will be physically and
visually compatible, identifiable upon close inspection, and properly documented for future research.
4. Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be retained
and preserved.
5. Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved.
6. The existing condition of historic features will be evaluated to determine the appropriate level of
intervention needed. Where the severity of deterioration requires repair or limited replacement
of a distinctive feature, the new material will match the old in composition, design, color, and texture.
7. Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
8.

Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.

74

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
1. A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new use that requires minimal
change to the defining characteristics of the building and its site and environment.
2. The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic
materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
3. Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Changes that
create a false sense of historical development, such as adding architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
4. Changes to properties over time are to be expected; those changes that have acquired historic
significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
5. Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that
characterize a property shall be preserved.
6. Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. If severity of deterioration
requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, when possible, materials. Replacement of missing features
shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
7. Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause damage to historic materials
shall not be used. The surface cleaning of structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the
gentlest means possible.
8. Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be protected and preserved. If such
resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be undertaken.
9. New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and
its environment.
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be undertaken in such a manner that
if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its
environment would be unimpaired.
Please see “Illustrated Guidelines” at http://www.nps.gov/history/hps/TPS/tax/rhb/
Madison Design Review Guidelines

75

Appendix A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Restoration
1. A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use which reflects the property's
restoration period.
2. Materials and features from the restoration period will be retained and preserved. The removal of
materials or alteration of features, spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize the period
will not be undertaken.
3. Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Work needed to
stabilize, consolidate and conserve materials and features from the restoration period will be
physically and visually compatible, identifiable upon close inspection, and properly documented
for future research.
4. Materials, features, spaces, and finishes that characterize other historical periods will be documented prior to their alteration or removal.
5. Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize the restoration period will be preserved.
6. Deteriorated features from the restoration period will be repaired rather than replaced. Where
the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will
match the old in design, color, texture, and, where possible, materials.
7. Replacement of missing features from the restoration period will be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence. A false sense of history will not be created by adding conjectural features, features from other properties, or by combining features that never existed together historically.
8. Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
9. Archeological resources affected by a project will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
10. Designs that were never executed historically will not be constructed.

76

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix A: Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Reconstruction
1. Reconstruction will be used to depict vanished or non-surviving portions of a property when
documentary and physical evidence is available to permit accurate reconstruction with minimal
conjecture, and such reconstruction is essential to the public understanding of the property.
2. Reconstruction of a landscape, building, structure, or object in its historic location will be preceded by a thorough archeological investigation to identify and evaluate those features and artifacts which are essential to an accurate reconstruction. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
3. Reconstruction will include measures to preserve any remaining historic materials, features, and
spatial relationships.
4. Reconstruction will be based on the accurate duplication of historic features and elements substantiated by documentary or physical evidence rather than on conjectural designs or the availability of different features from other historic properties. A reconstructed property will re-create
the appearance of the non-surviving historic property in materials, design, color, and texture.
5. A reconstruction will be clearly identified as a contemporary re-creation.
6. Designs that were never executed historically will not be constructed.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

77

Appendix B: Basic Maintenance Advice
MATERIALS
1.

Prevent water from making contact with exterior wood siding. Of particular importance is
keeping all gutters and downspouts in good repair to keep water from infiltrating the wood
surface.

2.

All exposed wood should be kept painted, stained or treated with preservatives.

3.

Repairs for wood siding such as cracks can be made through the use of waterproof glue. Large
cracks may be filled with caulk followed by putty. The surface should then be sanded, allowed to
dry, and painted.

4.

Where exterior siding has to be replaced the use of siding to match in dimension, size and profile
is recommended.

5.

Use paints consistent (oil or latex) with the existing paint surface for exterior siding.

6.

Keep exterior brick clean of mildew, efflorescence and dirt. Also keep exterior brick clean of
vines, ivy, and other plant materials. Washing with detergents and water are best for exterior
masonry and mortar. Sandblasting, water-blasting and other abrasive cleaning methods are
detrimental to historic buildings and should not be used.

7.

Re-pointing of historic mortar should be with a mortar which matches the original in appearance
and composition. Most mortar from before 1900 was composed of lime and sand and a mortar
with similar content should be applied. The use of Portland cement is not appropriate due to the
hardness of the mortar versus the softness of the brick.

8.

Most silicone based or waterproof coatings have limited effectiveness and may actually add to
moisture problems by not allowing the brick to breathe. The use of these products is not
appropriate.

ROOFS, CORNICES, CHIMNEYS
1.

Check the roof regularly for leaks, deterioration of flashing, and worn roof surfaces such as rolled
or asphalt shingles. An inspection of the upper floor or attic space during or following a
rainstorm can also assist in detection of water related problems.

2.

Know what metals are used in the cornice or roof flashing and use only similar metals during
replacement or repair. Different metals should not touch each other or a galvanic reaction may
occur leading to corrosion.

78

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix B: Basic Maintenance Advice
3. Metal roofs and cornices should be kept painted to prevent rust and deterioration. Appropriate
paints include those with an iron oxide oil base. Asphalt based paints and aluminum paints should
not be used on historic metals as they could accelerate the rusting process.
4. Chimneys should be regularly checked for cracking, leaning, spalling, and infestation by birds and
insects. The use of chimney caps over chimneys or flue openings is recommended to keep out
moisture. Refer to the chimney section – only certain types of caps are acceptable.
GUTTERS AND DOWNSPOUTS
1. Keep gutters and downspouts in good repair. Make sure they are properly connected, are clean of
leaves and other debris, and channel water effectively away from the building. Seal all cracks in
downspouts with silicone caulk or sealants.
2. Gutters and downspouts which are deteriorated should be replaced with new gutters and
downspouts. Half-round gutters and round downspouts are preferable to corrugated designs.
FOUNDATIONS
1. All water should drain away from a building and should not enter the foundation.
2. Trees, shrubs, and other plants should be kept well away from the foundation to prevent damage
from moisture and root movement. Typically a minimum distance of 2’ between the plantings
and the foundation wall is recommended.
PORCHES AND EXTERIOR ORNAMENTATION
1. Keep all porch and trim elements painted.
ENTRANCES
1. Doors, transoms, and sidelights should be kept clean.
2. Original locks and hardware should be kept oiled and in good repair. If original hardware is
missing or is deteriorated, the use of reproduction locks and hardware suitable for the building is
recommended.
3. Doors with a stained wood finish should be kept varnished; doors that were painted originally

Madison Design Review Guidelines

79

Appendix B: Basic Maintenance Advice
should be kept painted.
WINDOWS
1. Windows should be kept clean and free of dirt and grime. Wood sash surfaces should be painted
regularly.
2. Windows should be kept operable. Seams in the framing or between the window and storm
window should be caulked and sealed to aid in energy conservation.
3. Shutters should be kept painted and in good repair.
AWNINGS
1. Canvas awnings should be washed periodically and kept in good repair.
2. Awning hardware should be regularly checked for rust or loose mechanisms.
3. Awnings which become torn or otherwise deteriorated should be replaced.
SIGNS
1. Abandoned signs and sign hardware should be removed from buildings, unless historic.
2. Signs should be kept painted and mounting bolts should be checked periodically to make sure
they are secure.
3. Light fixtures, conduits, and wiring for signs should be inspected and replaced when necessary.

80

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix C: Definitions and Terms
. Procedural Definitions
Certificate of Appropriateness: A document issued by the Historic
District Board of Review (HDBR) allowing an applicant to proceed with
a proposed alteration, demolition, or new construction in the Madison
Historic District, following a determination of the proposal's suitability
according to applicable criteria.

Due process: The established procedure by which legal action is carried out.

Normally Required: Mandatory actions, summarized in the guidelines,
whose compliance is enforced by the HDBR.

Public notice: The classified advertisement of an event, such as a preservation commission meeting, that is published in the local newspaper
and posted in the city government building in order to notify the general public of the upcoming event.

Demolition: Any act which destroys in whole or in part a building or structure.
Demolition by Neglect: The destruction of a building or structure through
abandonment or lack of maintenance.
Design Guidelines: Criteria developed to identify design concerns in an
area and to help property owners ensure that rehabilitation and new construction respect the character of designated buildings and districts.
Element: A material part or detail of a site, structure, street, or district.
Elevation: Any one of the external faces or facades of a building.
Fabric: The physical material of a building, structure, or community, connoting an interweaving of component parts.
Facade: The front elevation of face of a building. Most buildings have only
one façade; some, like the Lanier Mansion, have two.
Harmony: Pleasing or congruent arrangement.

Recommended: Suggested, but not mandatory actions summarized in
the guidelines.
B. Technical Definitions
Adaptive Use: Rehabilitation of a historic structure for use other than
its original use such as a residence converted into offices.
Acceptable: Work that will be approved.
Addition: New construction added to an existing building or structure.
Alteration: Work which impacts any exterior architectural feature
including construction, reconstruction, repair, or removal of any building element.
Appropriate: Especially suitable or compatible.
Building: A structure used to house human activity such as a dwelling
or garage.
Character: The qualities and attributes of any structure, site, street or
district.
Configuration: The arrangement of elements and details on a building
or structure which help to define its character.
Contemporary: Reflecting characteristics of the current period. Contemporary denotes characteristics which illustrate that a building,
structure, or detail was constructed in the present or recent past rather
than being imitative or reflective of a historic design.
Compatible: In harmony with location and surroundings.
Context: The setting in which a historic element, site, structure, street,
or district exists.

Height: The distance from the bottom to the top of a building or structure.
Historic District: A geographically definable area with a significant concentration of buildings, structures, sites, spaces, or objects unified by past
events, physical development, design, setting, materials, workmanship,
sense of cohesiveness or related historical and aesthetic associations. The
significance of a district may be recognized through listing in a local, state,
or national landmarks register and may be protected legally through enactment of a local historic district ordinance administered by a historic
district board or commission.
Historic District Review Board: The city’s governmental board responsible
for overseeing design review in the Madison Historic District.
Historic Imitation: New construction or rehabilitation where elements or
components mimic an architectural style but are not of the same historic
period as the existing buildings (historic replica).
Infill: New construction in historic districts on vacant lots or to replace
existing buildings.
Landmark: A building, structure, object or site which is identified as a
historic resource of particular significance.
Landscape: The totality of the built or human-influenced habitat experienced at any one place. Dominant features are topography, plant cover,
buildings, or other structures and their patterns.
Maintain: To keep in an existing state of preservation or repair.
Material Change: A change that will affect either the exterior architectural
or environmental features of an historic property or any structure, site, or
work of art within an historic district.
New construction: Construction which is characterized by the introduction
of new elements, sites, buildings, or structures or additions to existing
buildings and structures in historic areas and districts.
Obscured: Covered, concealed, or hidden from view.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

81

Appendix C: Definitions and Terms
Preservation: Generally, saving from destruction or deterioration
old and historic buildings, sites, structures, and objects and providing for their continued use by means of restoration, rehabilitation,
or adaptive use.

Alteration Work which impacts any exterior architectural feature including
construction, reconstruction, or removal of any building or building element.
Apron A decorative, horizontal trim piece on the lower portion of an architectural element.

Proportion: Harmonious relation of parts to one another or to the
whole.

Arch A construction which spans an opening and supports the weight above
it. (see flat arch, jack arch, segmental arch and semi-circular arch).

Reconstruction: The act or process of reproducing by new construction the exact form and detail of a vanished building, structure,
or object, or a part thereof, as is appeared at a specific period of
time.

Attic The upper level of a building, not of full ceiling height, directly beneath
the roof.

Rehabilitation: The act or process of returning a property or building to usable condition through repair, alteration, and/or preservation of its features which are significant to its historical, architectural, and cultural values.
Restoration: The act or process of accurately taking a building's
appearance back to a specific period of time by removing later work
and by replacing missing earlier features to match the original.
Retain: To keep secure and intact. In the guidelines, "retain" and
"maintain" describe the act of keeping an element, detail, or structure and continuing the same level of repair to aid in the preservation of elements, sites and structures.
Re-use: To use again. An element, detail, or structure might be
reused in historic districts.
Rhythm: Movement or fluctuation marked by the regular occurrence or natural flow of related elements.
Scale: Proportional elements that demonstrate the size, materials,
and style of buildings.
Setting: The sum of attributes of a locality, neighborhood, or property that defines its character.
Significant: Having particularly important associations within the
contexts of architecture, history, and culture.
Stabilization: The act or process of applying measures essential to
the maintenance of a deteriorated building as it exists at present,
establishing structural stability and a weather-resistant enclosure.
Streetscape: The distinguishing character of a particular street as
created by its width, degree of curvature, paving materials, design
of the street furniture, and forms of surrounding buildings.
Style: A type of architecture distinguished by special characteristics of structure and ornament and often related in time; also a
general quality of a distinctive character.

Baluster One of a series of short, vertical, often vase-shaped members used
to support a stair or porch handrail, forming a balustrade.
Balustrade An entire rail system with top rail and balusters.
Bargeboard A board which hangs from the projecting end of a gable roof,
covering the end rafters, and often sawn into a decorative pattern.
Bay The portion of a facade between columns or piers providing regular
divisions and usually marked by windows.
Bay window A projecting window that forms an extension to the floor space
of the internal rooms; usually extends to the ground level.
Belt course A horizontal band usually marking the floor levels on the exterior facade of a building.
Board and batten Siding fashioned of boards set vertically and covered
where their edges join by narrow strips called battens.
Bond A term used to describe the various patterns in which brick (or stone)
is laid, such as "common bond' or "Flemish bond."
Bracket A projecting element of wood, stone or metal which spans between
horizontal and vertical surfaces (eaves, shelves, overhangs) as decorative
support.
Bulkhead The structural panels just below display windows on storefronts.
Bulkheads can be both supportive and decorative in design. 19th century
bulkheads are often of wood construction with rectangular raised panels.
20th century bulkheads may be of wood, brick, tile, or marble construction.
Bulkheads are also referred to as kickplates.
Bungalow Common house form of the early twentieth century distinguished
by horizontal emphasis, wide eaves, large porches and multi-light doors and
windows.
Carrara Glass Tinted glass widely used for storefront remodeling during the
1930s and 1940s. Carrara glass usually came in black, tan, or dark red colors.
Capital The head of a column or pilaster.
Casement window A window with one or two sashes which are hinged at the
sides and usually open outward.

C. GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Addition New construction added to an existing building or structure.

82

Clapboards Horizontal wooden boards, thinner at the top edge, which are
overlapped to provide a weather-proof exterior wall surface.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix C: Definitions and Terms
Classical order Derived from Greek and Roman architecture, a
column with its base, shaft, capital and entablature having standardized details and proportions, according to one of the five
canonized modes: Doric, Tuscan, Ionic, Corinthian, or Composite.
Clipped gable A gable roof where the ends of the ridge are terminated in a small, diagonal roof surface.
Colonial Revival Architectural style of the early twentieth century
based on interpretations of architectural forms of the American
colonies prior to the Revolution.
Column A circular or square vertical structural member.
Common bond A brickwork pattern where most courses are laid
flat, with the long "stretcher" edge exposed, but every fifth to
eighth course is laid perpendicularly with the small "header" end
exposes, to structurally tie the wall together.
Corbel In masonry, a projection, or one of a series of projections,
each stepped progressively farther forward with height and articulating a cornice or supporting an overhanging member.
Corinthian order Most ornate classical order characterized by a
capital with ornamental acanthus leaves and curled fern shoots.
Cornice The uppermost, projecting part of an entablature, or
feature resembling it. Any projecting ornamental molding along
the top of a wall, building, etc.
Craftsman Architectural style popularized around the turn of the
twentieth century emphasizing simple, original craftsmanship as a
movement away from Victorian styles.
Cresting A decorated ornamental finish along the top of a wall or
roof, often made of ornamental metal.
Cross-gable A secondary gable roof which meets the primary roof
at right angles.
Dentils A row of small tooth-like blocks in a classical cornice.
Doric order A classical order with simple, unadorned capitals, and
with no base.
Dormer window A window that projects from a roof.
Double-hung window A window with two sashes, one sliding
vertically over the other.
Eave The edge of a roof that projects beyond the face of a wall.
Elevation Any of the external faces of a building.
Ell The rear wing of a house, generally one room wide and running
perpendicular to the principal building.
Engaged column A round column attached to a wall.

Entablature A part of a building of classical order resting on the column
capital; consists of an architrave, frieze, and cornice.
Facade The face or front elevation of a building.
Fanlight A semi-circular window usually over a door with radiating muntins
suggesting a fan.
Fascia A projecting flat horizontal member or molding; forms the trim of a
flat roof or a pitched roof; also part of a classical entablature.
Federal Architectural style of the early nineteenth century characterized by
restrained detailing and often having elliptical transoms over entrances.
Fenestration The arrangement of windows on a building.
Finial A projecting decorative element, usually of metal, at the top of a roof
turret or gable.
Fishscale shingles A decorative pattern of wall shingles composed of staggered horizontal rows of wooden shingles with half-round ends.
Flashing Thin metal sheets used to prevent moisture infiltration at joints of
roof planes and between the roof and vertical surfaces.
Flat arch An arch whose wedge-shaped stones or bricks are set in a straight
line; also called a jack arch.
Flemish bond A brick-work pattern where the long "stretcher" edge of the
brick is alternated with the small "header" end for decorative as well as structural effectiveness.
Fluting Shallow, concave grooves running vertically on the shaft of a column,
pilaster, or other surface.
Foundation The lowest exposed portion of the building wall, which supports
the structure above.
Frieze The middle portion of a classical cornice; also applied decorative
elements on an entablature or parapet wall.
Gable The triangular section of a wall to carry a pitched roof.
Gable roof A pitched roof with one downward slope on either side of a central, horizontal ridge.
Gambrel roof A ridged roof with two slopes on either side.
Ghosts Outlines or profiles of missing buildings or building details. These
outlines may be visible through stains, paint, weathering, or other residue on
a building's facade.
Greek Revival Architectural style of the mid-nineteenth century adopting
classical features such as columns supporting entablatures for a balanced,
symmetrical effect.
Guardrail A building component or a system of building components located
at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibilities of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

83

Appendix C: Definitions and Terms
Handrail A horizontal or sloping rail intended for grasping by the
hand for guidance or support.

Muntin A secondary framing member to divide and hold the panes of glass
in multi-light window or glazed door.

Hipped roof A roof with uniform slopes on all sides.

Neo-classical Revival style Early twentieth century style which combines
features of ancient, Renaissance, and Colonial architecture; characterized
by imposing buildings with large columned porches.

Hood molding A projecting molding above an arch, doorway, or
window, originally designed to direct water away from the opening;
also called a drip mold.

Oriel window A bay window which emerges above the ground floor level.
Paired columns Two columns supported by one pier, as on a porch.

Ionic order One of the five classical orders used to describe decorative scroll capitals.

Palladian window A window with three openings, the central one arched
and wider than the flanking ones.

Infill New construction where there had been an opening before,
such as a new building between two older structures; or block infill
between porch piers or in an original window opening.

Paneled door A door composed of solid panels (either raised or recessed)
held within a framework of rails and stiles.

Jack arch (see Flat arch)

Parapet A low horizontal wall at the edge of a roof.

Keystone The wedge-shaped top or center member of an arch.

Pediment A triangular crowning element forming the gable of a roof; any
similar triangular element used over windows, doors, etc.

Knee brace An oversize bracket supporting a cantilevered or projecting element.

Pier A vertical structural element, square or rectangular in cross-section.

Lattice An openwork grill of interlacing wood strips used as
screening.

Pilaster A square pillar attached, but projecting from a wall, resembling a
classical column.

Lintel The horizontal top member of a window, door, or other
opening.

Pitch The degree of the slope of a roof.

Luxfer glass A glass panel made up of small leaded glass lights
either clear or tinted purple. These panels were widely used for
storefront transoms during the early 20th century.
Mansard roof A roof with a double slope on all four sides, with the
lower slope being almost vertical and the upper almost horizontal.
Masonry Exterior wall construction of brick, stone or adobe laid up
in small units.

Portico A roofed space, open or partly enclosed, forming the entrance and
centerpiece of the facade of a building, often with columns and a pediment.
Portland cement A strong, inflexible hydraulic cement used to bind mortar.
Mortar or patching materials with a high Portland cement content should
not be used on old buildings. The Portland cement is harder than the masonry, thereby causing serious damage over annual freeze-thaw cycles.)
Preservation The act of maintaining the form and character of a building as
it presently exists. Preservation stops deterioration and stabilizes the structure.

Massing The three-dimensional form of a building.
Metal standing seam roof A roof composes of overlapping sections of metal such as copper-bearing steel or iron coated with a
terne alloy of lead and tin. These roofs were attached or crimped
together in various raised seams for which the roof are named.
Modillion A horizontal bracket, often in the form of a plain block,
ornamenting, or sometimes supporting, the underside of a cornice.
Mortar A mixture of sand, lime, (and in more modern structures,
cement), and water used as a binding agent in masonry construction.
Mothballing: Implementing temporary measures to stabilize and
protect a building from deterioration and vandalism.
Mullion A heavy vertical divider between windows or doors.

Pressed tin Decorative and functional metalwork made of molded tin used
to sheath roofs, bays, and cornices.
Pyramidal roof A roof with four identical sides rising to a central peak.
Quoins A series of stone, bricks, or wood panels ornamenting the outside
of a wall.
Reconstruction The accurate recreation of a vanished, or irreplaceably
damaged structure, or part thereof; the new construction recreates the
building's exact form and detail as they appeared at some point in history.
Rehabilitation The act of returning a building to usable condition through
repair, alteration, and/or preservation of its features.
Restoration The process of accurately taking a building's appearance back
to a specific period of time by removing later work and by replacing missing
earlier features to match the original.

Multi-light window A window sash composed of more than one
pane of glass.

84

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix C: Definitions and Terms
Veranda A covered porch or balcony on a building's exterior.
Ridge The top horizontal member of a roof where the sloping surfaces meet.

Vergeboard The vertical face board following and set under the roof edge
of a gable, sometimes decorated by carving.

Rusticated Roughening of stonework of concrete blocks to give
greater articulation to each block.

Vernacular A regional form or adaptation of an architectural style.

Sash The moveable framework containing the glass in a window.

Wall dormer Dormer created by the upward extension of a wall and a
breaking of the roofline.

Segmental arch An arch whose profile or radius is less than a semicircle.
Semi-circular arch An arch whose profile or radius is a half-circle the
diameter of which equals the opening width.

Water table A projecting horizontal ledge, intended to prevent water
from running down the face of a wall's lower section.
Weatherboard Wood siding consisting of overlapping boards usually
thicker at one edge than the other.

Sheathing An exterior covering of boards of other surface applied to
the frame of the structure. (see Siding)
Shed roof A gently-pitched, almost flat roof with only one slope.
Sidelight a vertical area of fixed glass on either side of a door or
window.
Siding the exterior wall covering or sheathing of a structure.
Sill The bottom crosspiece of a window frame.
Spindles Slender, elaborately turned wood dowels or rods often
used in screens and porch trim.
Stabilization The essential maintenance of a deteriorated building
as it exists at present, establishing structural stability and a weatherresistant enclosure.
Streetscape The general appearance and configuration of the many
buildings which define the street.
Stretcher bond A brickwork pattern where courses are laid flat with
the long "stretcher" edge exposed.
Surround An encircling border or decorative frame, usually at windows or doors.
Swag Carved ornament on the form of a cloth draped over supports,
or in the form of a garland of fruits and flowers.
Terra cotta Decorative building material of baked clay. Terra cotta
was often glazed in various colors and textures. Terra cotta was
widely used for cornices, inset panels, and other decorative façade
elements from ca. 1880 to 1930.
Transom A horizontal opening (or bar) over a door or window. (see
Overlight)
Trim The decorative framing of openings and other features on a
facade.
Turret A small slender tower.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

85

Appendix D: Bibliography
Carley, Rachel. The Visual Dictionary of American Domestic Architecture. New York: Henry Holt and Company, LLC, 1994.
“City of Madison, Indiana Code of Ordinances,” available at website http://www.amlegal.com/madison_in/ accessed June 25,
2008.
Cronon, William. Nature’s Metropolis: Chicago and the Great West. New York: W.W. Norton and Company, 1991.
Harris, Cyril M., ed. Dictionary of Architecture and Construction. District of Columbia: McGraw Hill, 2000.
“History of Madison,” available at website keywestshrimphouse.com accessed June 17, 2008.
“Jefferson County Courthouse,” available at website http://www.oldmadison.com/ accessed June 23, 2008.
Longstreth, Richard. The Buildings of Main Street: A Guide to American Commercial Architecture. District
of Columbia: The National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1987.
“Madison’s Railroad,” available at website http://www.oldmadison.com/ accessed June 23, 2008.
McAlester, Virginia and Lee. A Field Guide to American Houses. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006.
Morton, W. Brown, III, Gary L. Hume, and Kay D. Weeks. The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings. 1979. Rev. ed. Washington, D.C.: Technical Preservation Services. U.S. Department of the Interior, 1990.
National Park Service. “Removing Graffiti from Historic Masonry.” Website accessed April 16, 2008.
URL: http://www.nps.gov/history/hps/tps/briefs/presbhom.htm
Park, Sharon D., AIA. The Use of Substitute Materials on Historic Building Exteriors. Preservation Brief no. 16. Washington, D.C.:
Technical Preservation Services, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1989.
“River to Rail: The Rise and Fall of River and Rail transportation in Madison, Indiana,” website available at http://
rivertorail.mjcpl.org/ accessed Junes 17, 2008.
Rypkema, Donovan D. The Economics of Historic Preservation. Washington: The
National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1994.
Scott, Robert, W. “Jefferson County: First Visitors and First Settlers,” available at website
http://myindianahome.net/gen/jeff/records/history/indiank.html,1995; accessed June 17, 2008.
“Tax Credits,” available at website http://www.madisonmainstreet.com/about accessed June 23, 2008.
Technical Preservation Services, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior. Respectful Rehabilitation. Washington, D.C.: The Preservation Press, 1982.
_____. Preservation Briefs. Published periodically. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office.
Website http://www.historicmadisoninc.com/ accessed June 23, 2008.

86

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix E: Incentives and Assistance for Rehabilitation

TAX CREDITS FOR REHABILIATION
Income tax credits for the rehabilitation of historic buildings are available to Indiana property owners at both the Federal
and State levels . In each program, a property owner can receive a twenty percent credit on the total costs of rehabilitating a historic property. Rehab methods and materials must follow the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards. The state and
federal plans are not mutually exclusive, allowing the potential for a forty percent tax credit on approved rehabilitation
work. Commercial buildings, warehouses, or income-producing dwellings may be eligible.
FEDERAL REHABILITATION TAX CREDITS
Over the past twenty-five years, more than 29,000 buildings have been rehabilitated across the country, generating over
$25 billion in private investment in historic buildings nation-wide. There are two types of tax credits available: 20% for a
certified historic structure or 10% for a non-historic structure. Investment Tax Credits are available to the owners or certain long-term renters of income-producing properties.
The 20% tax credit reduces the cost of restoration and rehabilitation to the owner of an income producing historic property as an income tax credit. The credit is 20% of what an owner spends rehabilitating the building, not including acquisition costs.

To qualify for the 20% Credit:
1. The building must be listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or listed as a contributing structure within a
National Register Historic District.
2. The rehabilitation project must meet the "substantial rehabilitation test," which means you must spend the adjusted
value of the building or $5000, whichever is greater. The figure is derived by subtracting the value of the land from
the cost of the building and land together.
3. After rehabilitation, the structure must be income producing for five years (commercial, rental, B&B).
4. The rehabilitation must meet The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings.
To qualify for the 10% credit:
1. The structure must have been built before 1936 and not "historic" (must not be listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places).
2. The structure must retain 50-70% of external walls and 75% of internal walls.
3. The rehabilitation must meet the "substantial rehabilitation test" as in the 20% credit.
4. The structure must be used for five years as income producing but NOT housing.
For additional general information on the Investment Tax Credit program, see the National Park Service’s ITC web-site at
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/tax/.
CREDITS FOR OWNER-OCCUPIED PRIVATE RESIDENCES
Additionally, there is available to Indiana state income tax payers a Residential Historic Rehabilitation Credit on certified
rehabilitations of historic buildings that are principally used and occupied by a taxpayer as that taxpayer’s residence. Under this plan, a taxpayer may claim a state income tax credit for 20 percent of the total qualified rehabilitation or preservation cost of a project. The property must be located in Indiana and be at least fifty (50) years old. It also must be listed
on the Indiana Register of Historic Sites and Structures and must be owned and occupied as the principal residence by the
taxpayer.

Madison Design Review Guidelines

87

Appendix F: Resources
For more information about historic preservation contact:

City of Madison
Madison Planning/Building
Inspection Department
101 West Main Street
Madison, Indiana 47250
(812) 265-8324
madplan@madison-in.gov
Historic Landmarks Foundation
of Indiana
Southern Regional Office
115 West Chestnut St.
Jeffersonville, Indiana 47130
812-284-4534
south@historiclandmarks.org

Historic Madison Inc.
500 West Street
Madison, Indiana 47250
(812) 265-2967
info@historicmadisoninc.com
Cornerstone Society Inc.
P.O. Box 92
Madison, Indiana 47250
cornerstoneinfo@cornerstonesocietyinc.org
Madison Main Street Program
132 East Main Street
Madison, Indiana 47250
(812) 265– 3270
information@madisonmainstreet.com
www.madisonmainstreet.com

National Park Service
Jefferson County Historical Society
615 West First Street
Madison, IN 47250
(812) 265-2335
www.jchshc.org
National Historic Landmarks
Dr. Michele Curran
601 Riverfront Drive
Omaha, Nebraska 68102
(402) 661-1954
Michele-curran@nps.gov

Historic photo credits:
Page 11: Photo from http://rivertorail.mjcpl.org.
Page 12: Photo from http://www.historicmadisoninc.com/
Page 13: Photo from http://rivertorail.mjcpl.org.
Page 14: top photos from http://www.keywestshrimphouse.com/
history_of_madison_indiana.htm;
Bottom photo from http://www.livgenmi.com/1895/IN/County/jefferson.htm
Page 15: photos from Photo from http://rivertorail.mjcpl.org
Page 86: Photo from keywestshrimphouse.com

88

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Appendix G: Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

Madison Design Review Guidelines

89

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

90

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

Madison Design Review Guidelines

91

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

92

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

Madison Design Review Guidelines

93

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

94

Madison Design Review Guidelines

Madison National Historic Landmark Boundary Maps

Madison Design Review Guidelines

95


