
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

METROPOLITAN &
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

DATE:

July 11, 2016

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:42 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:33 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
Attending Members
Vop Osili, Chair
Zach Adamson
Jared Evans
Colleen Fanning
Scott Kreider
Jeff Miller
David Ray
Leroy Robinson

Absent Members

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 207, 2016 - restructures and renames the department of code enforcement and
its divisions to improve efficiency and effectiveness
“Do Pass as Amended”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 229, 2016 - approves the initial agreement between the City and Indianapolis
Public Schools permitting the City to enter into a project agreement with the chosen developer of
the SCIPS property as a condition to closing of the developer's purchase of the SCIPS property
from IPS, and alternatively the City's purchase of the SCIPS property
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2016 - approves the City's submission of a grant application to the U.S.
Economic Development Administration for a Recovery Coordinator position to assist with the
new Carrier Task Force
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0

PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2016 – a final bond ordinance for Hellenic Senior Living of Indianapolis,
LLC for the issuance of multi-family revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $16,500,000 to provide a portion of the cost of the acquisition, design, construction and
equipping of a 125-unit assisted living multi-family housing facility, with functionally related
and subordinate facilities for low and moderate income seniors (District 23)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0

METROPOLITIAN & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Metropolitan and Economic Development Committee of the City-County Council met on
Monday, July 11, 2016. Chairman Vop Osili called the meeting to order at 5:42 p.m. with the
following members present: Zach Adamson, Jared Evans, Colleen Fanning, Scott Kreider, Jeff
Miller, David Ray and Leroy Robinson. Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Bart Brown and General
Counsel Fred Biesecker represented Council staff.
Chair Osili asked all Councillors to introduce themselves and indicate which portion of the
County they represent.
PROPOSAL NO. 207, 2016 - restructures and renames the department of code enforcement and
its divisions to improve efficiency and effectiveness
Jason Larrison, Director, Department of Code Enforcement (DCE), stated that this proposal
restructures DCE to allow for better efficiencies in their department to streamline some of their
operations with individual deputy directors, providing flexibility within the bureaus that are
established under each division. He said that it also renames DCE to the Department of Business
and Neighborhood Services (DBNS) to reflect the changing operations of DCE, in particular
with the addition of Animal Care and Control.
Chair Osili stated that at the last meeting, this proposal was postponed due to some technical
language that had to be reviewed.
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Evans, to “Amend” Proposal No. 207,
2016, per Exhibit A.
Councillor Miller referred to the amendment, and noted where the parts that were not highlighted
in color, but were sections being moved. He asked if this was from the very first amendment.
Councillor Adamson answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Biesecker stated that most of the items not highlighted on the amendment are simply moving
definitions to obtain alphabetical order on pages two through four. He said that the reason for the
change in Section 135-391 is because it used to be the Department of Public Safety, but was
changed to DCE, and now it has to be changed to the Department of Business and Neighborhood
Services, which is why it is double underlined. Mr. Biesecker stated that in Section 875-109,
subsections (b) and (c) were lumped together, and this just separates those subsections.
Councillor Miller asked if this document can be put online for the public. Mr. Larrison answered
in the affirmative.
The motion to amend carried by a vote of 8-0.
Councillor Miller asked if the renaming of DCE will bury code enforcement so that people do
not know who to call. Mr. Larrison stated that they will make things clear on their publications.

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 2

Mr. Brown stated that this does create a special fund for Animal Care and Control, and he asked
if Mr. Larrison has been in contact with the City Controller about the creation of this fund and
how it will be maintained. Mr. Larrison answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Kreider stated that previously they talked about the cost savings of the change to a
new department. He asked if there are any updates or changes. Mr. Larrison stated that there are
no changes. He said that the expenses from the change will come in the form of business cards
and letterhead.
Chair Osili called for public testimony. Rita Overman, citizen, stated that the word enforcement
should be taken out of the equation. She said that this is the right decision to change the
department.
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Fanning, to send Proposal No. 207, 2016 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass as Amended” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of
8-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 229, 2016 - approves the initial agreement between the City and Indianapolis
Public Schools permitting the City to enter into a project agreement with the chosen developer of
the SCIPS property as a condition to closing of the developer's purchase of the SCIPS property
from IPS, and alternatively the City's purchase of the SCIPS property
Thomas Cook, Chief of Staff, Office of Mayor Joseph Hogsett, stated that IPS has been engaged
in over-a-year-long process to look at the property at the end of Massachusetts Ave; the old Coca
Cola lot. He said that at the point where the City had entered talks with IPS, they were already in
the latter stages of the bidding process that had already produced five different bids from four
different bidders. Mr. Cook stated that they were told by IPS that they were going to have a
purchase agreement directly with the developer, and there were a range of proposals that had
some City incentives, while some did not. He said that the Administration had engaged in
conversations with IPS about an appropriate role the City could play in the development. Mr.
Cook stated that the agreement between IPS and the City does not approve or disapprove the
development that the IPS board selected through the Hendricks proposal. He said that Hendricks
has signed an agreement with IPS that states that Hendricks will pay IPS a certain amount of
money, $12 million, and that they will get Legislative approval through the Indiana Historic
Preservation Committee (IHPC), as required, for some of the initial phases of the development.
He said beyond that, it does not mandate City involvement or that IPS has to sign a purchase
agreement. The clause says “should the City-Council within 60 days; choose to enact this
particular proposal, the developer, in addition to all of the requirements that were placed on
them within the purchase agreement, also would have to sign a project agreement with the
City as it relates to the details of the development.”
Councillor Adamson stated that the original agreement with the developer and IPS does not
obligate them to any type of development. Mr. Cook stated that IPS was concerned with many
things. They went through a community engagement process, and they attempted to take into
consideration many different factors in choosing a developer. He said that the agreement reflects

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 3

those things that are most critically important to the IPS Board, which will impact the fiduciary
duties to the students of IPS, which is the purchase price. It does not require the types of things
that this Council body would be used to seeing in a traditional project agreement in terms of
what, when and how it is built. Mr. Cook stated that the developer that IPS chose does not have
any incentives as part of the deal. If they did, they would have to come before the Council and
the Metropolitan Development Commission (MDC) to answer any questions and possibly adjust
their proposal to meet the concerns.
Andy Mallon, Corporation Counsel, stated that the proposal before the committee is substantially
similar to the one that the IPS Board passed prior to its selection of Hendricks as the developer.
He said that the City’s agreement with IPS stated that it would be contingent on the passage of a
similar proposal by the Council. He said that this proposal is brought before the committee in
order to ratify the agreement that the City brought to IPS.
Mr. Mallon stated that upon board approval of the developer’s proposal to develop the IPS
property and upon entering into a purchase agreement with the developer, the IPS Board will
require that the developer enter into a project agreement with the City. The City will have 60
days from the award date to commence discussions with the developer concerning the terms of a
project agreement. Mr. Mallon stated that if the developer does not close on the purchase of the
property, the City agrees to purchase the IPS property for an amount not to exceed $13 million.
Chair Osili asked if the proposal is authorizing the City to go into negotiations with Hendricks.
He asked what type of agreement they are authorizing the City to perform and what types of core
values they will be asking for that reflect the City. Mr. Mallon stated that they will seek to reflect
the core values not just of the Administration, but of the Council. Jeff Bennett, Deputy Mayor of
Community Development, stated that they want to ensure that the site is remediated and ensure
that something is built there. He said that they have a real interest in WBE/XBE, and how the site
reconnects the Chatham Arch and Cottage Home neighborhoods. Councillor Osili stated that
another importance to him and his fellow Councillors, as a part of the template is a focus on local
hires. Mr. Bennett stated that if this proposal passes, it is not the end of their conversation with
the Council. He said that there will be opportunities throughout their work to bring Councillors
into the discussions.
Councillor Fanning asked what the formal process for approving a project agreement like this is.
Mr. Bennett stated that when the City is involved in a project, the approval process allows for
them to go through the MDC. He said that they would assume to follow a similar process. Mr.
Mallon stated that it depends if the Council is authorizing them to begin negotiations and discuss
the terms. He said that if they are talking about WBE/XBE and local hires, those things can be
negotiated straight from the Administration. Mr. Mallon said that they would need to go to the
MDC and the Council for any appropriations or use of Tax Increment Finance (TIF) funds.
Chair Osili stated that this is a real precedent for the City for the developer to not ask for any
incentives. That puts a lot of other “asks” into perspective that come before them. Councillor
Osili asked if there are any other requests, representing the Council’s core values; like local
hires, WBE/XBE participation, etc; what the response from Hendricks will be. Mr. Mallon stated

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 4

that he hopes that everyone will factor those values into this bargain. He said that they will try to
maintain the status quo to keep Hendricks from asking for City incentives, but it might happen,
and they would have to come back to the Council to discuss further. Mr. Cook stated that they do
not mean to sound “doom and gloom”. They are excited about the prospect of the development
that seems to support the interest of $260 million of capital investment without the City being
asked for incentives.
Councillor Adamson asked what the discussion has been regarding the remediation of the
property and where the agreement with IPS is at this point. Mr. Bennett stated that the idea of
environmental liability played a large role at the very end of their conversations and negotiations
with IPS. He said that they did not want to get stuck with that liability if they were to purchase
the property. Mr. Mallon said that ultimately what was put in the agreement was that the City’s
environmental liability stance would equate to the developers’ proposal. Whatever was put into
the purchase agreement between IPS and the developer would be the same as what the City
would have, as far as liability. He said that they also protected the City’s ability to proceed
against responsible parties. Councillor Adamson stated that the liability should be related to the
negotiations between the City and IPS; it should not be related to an external effect like
remediation of the property which exceeds amounts that the City can take on. Mr. Mallon stated
that Hendricks’ proposal was to accept the environmental liability and remediate similar to what
the City would do to go against previous real estate owners. There is a clause in the purchase
agreement between IPS and Hendricks that states that if Hendricks discovers anything outside
the property or something they had not yet discovered; Hendricks has a decision to make
whether or not they want to go through with the deal with IPS. If the environmental conditions
are new and are too much for them, then they will use this provision to walk away. Councillor
Adamson asked if the City has that same protection. Mr. Mallon answered in the negative.
Councillor Fanning stated that she recently met with the President of Hendricks, and while she is
disappointed that IPS did not choose a local developer, she believes that Hendricks has very high
integrity and they are really excited about the deal, and personally guaranteed that they are 100%
committed. Councillor Fanning stated that providing a financial backstop of $12 million is a
cause of concern. She asked if the property has recently been appraised and for how much;
where the funds will come from to purchase the property; and an explanation of the date
inconsistencies regarding the closing date and purchase price installment dates. Mr. Cook stated
that he does not think that the property was appraised as a part of this process to determine a
purchase price like Councillor Fanning might be thinking. The bid process between IPS and
Hendricks was to assess fair market value in the development sense. Mr. Bennett stated that IPS
had to have an appraisal done as part of the property disposal process that they undertook. He
said that they did not share those appraisals. Mr. Mallon stated that in the agreement, it states that
“The City will pay to IPS the purchase price in installments, but the purchase price shall be
paid in full no later than (6) six months after the Transfer Date.” He said that the Transfer
Date is different from the Closing Date, and the Closing Date needs to happen 60 days after
closing. Mr. Mallon said that they have to close with IPS within 60 days, and the purchase price
can be paid in installments, but within six months. Mr. Brown stated that to answer Councillor
Fanning’s question regarding where the money will come from to purchase the property, the only
fund that would sustain the payment would be the Downtown TIF.

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 5

Councillor Evans asked Mr. Biesecker if he has any issues or concerns with this proposal. Mr.
Biesecker stated that his principal concern is that, under the purchase agreement between IPS
and Hendricks, one of the conditions of the closing is the purchaser’s satisfaction of the
environmental inspections of the property. He said that even though Phase I and II have already
been done, if Hendricks does its own environmental inspections and concludes that there is,
hypothetically, $5 million worth of contamination that needs to be cleaned up, they can walk.
The City cannot, and they would have to pay $12 million. He said that the City does not have the
same right as Hendricks if they discover new contamination.
Councillor Adamson stated that an arrangement to have property that will be purchased for $12
million has a sale price with another developer for a different type of project for $13 million, but
the City would end up having to pay $10 million for remediation issues which would put them in
the hole considerably. He said that they need to figure out what steps the City can take to try and
add some type of protection for the City. Mr. Bennett stated for the other proposals that were
requesting City incentives, even though they were offering IPS $15 million, most of those other
requests for incentives involved a substantial amount to be set aside for brownfield remediation.
He said that they would have been paying those developers incentives to remediate the property.
Mr. Bennett said that the City’s backstop puts them in a better position to control the remediation
problem if they exceed the concerns of Hendricks in a way that would be similar had IPS just
chosen another developer. Mr. Brown stated that the difference is that the City would have been
at the table with the other proposals because they were asking for incentives, so they would not
have to be making decisions at this moment; they would have had time to negotiate. The issue is
that the Council is being asked to make a decision without knowing everything about the
property. Mr. Mallon stated that the City’s agreement with IPS occurred before they selected the
vendor. He said that they were contemplating all six proposals, and no one was at the table until
then.
Councillor Adamson asked if he can have an explanation as to what degree they have
investigated the likelihood that there is contamination lurking that exceeds a reasonable amount
for the City to pay. Mr. Mallon stated that the City did a Phase I and II study and they, as well as
Hendricks, know that there is contamination. Hendricks did not walk away from the deal and is
purchasing the property as is. He said that Hendricks is going into the project with eyes wide
open, even though they know the risks. Councillor Adamson asked what Phase I and II means.
Mr. Bennett stated that Phase I is the historical research of what has been on the site over time
like previous uses or businesses and if any of those uses lead one to think that there might be
something going on underground that warrants further investigation. In this case, there is some
expectation, because that site’s history is industrial. Mr. Bennett said that a Phase II looks
specifically at those historical uses and takes samples to see what is going on. He said that Phase
II produces a report reading from the samples, and recommends courses of action for
remediation.
Councillor Kreider stated that he has some concerns about making the City a guarantor, up to the
tune of $12 million. He said that there is some competing community interest and a potential
spot to get a seat at the table with a pending deadline. Councillor Kreider stated that he would
recommend that the committee send this proposal to the full Council.

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 6

Councillor Miller asked why the amount would go any higher than $12 million; because this
agreement leaves it open to go up to $13 million. Mr. Mallon stated that it would have been
higher if IPS had selected a vendor that had offered $15 million; then the City would not go any
higher than $13 million. Councillor Miller asked with the project agreement being completed, if
Hendricks will go through the IHPC and Indy Zoning for variances. Mr. Mallon stated that those
are separate from the City’s agreement. Hendricks will have to go through that process, to the
extent that their development calls for it. The City’s project agreement is a layer on top of that.
Councillor Adamson asked Mr. Biesecker his opinion if they should move forward with this
proposal without asset protection regarding the environmental remediation. Mr. Biesecker stated
that based on what he has heard; the risk seems to be remote. He said that he wishes that there
was some type of equitable adjustment formula, but his recommendation is to move forward with
the proposal as is.
Chair Osili stated that he would like to see some type of agreement from the Administration that
has the core values listed in it that would give him peace of mind to support it at the full Council.
Councillor Robinson stated that as an educator, he has some interaction with the school district;
and he asked to abstain from voting.
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Evans, to send Proposal No. 229, 2016 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0-1, with
Councillor Robinson abstaining.
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2016 - approves the City's submission of a grant application to the U.S.
Economic Development Administration for a Recovery Coordinator position to assist with the
new Carrier Task Force
Brent Pierce, Administrator for Real Estate and Economic Development, Department of
Metropolitan Development (DMD), stated that this proposal authorizes the City to apply for
funding for a Recovery Coordinator position to assist with the Carrier Task Force. He said that
this person will be full-time and will be charged with working with internal and external
stakeholders to come up with a plan to address some of the existing industrial infrastructure to
find a way to invest in manufacturing sites to prevent, in the future, thousands of jobs leaving the
City. Mr. Pierce stated that Mayor Hogsett asked the Task Force to work with the Economic
Development Administration (EDA) to find some funding, because Indianapolis has never
qualified for EDA funds because the City has not met the EDA’s distress criteria. Since the
Carrier closure, however, that has gotten them in the door with receiving funds. He said that the
EDA require a 50% match from the City and a signed resolution from the City-County Council
to state that the funds are available and not encumbered.
Councillor Krieder asked where the total amount needed came from. Mr. Pierce stated that over
18 months, the Recovery Coordinator will have an $80,000 annualized salary with funds set
aside for travel and equipment. He said that this person will be an independent contractor and not
a full-time employee of the City.

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 7

Councillor Evans stated that he is proud to sponsor this resolution because the Carrier Plant is in
his district and they will be heavily impacted by the loss of those jobs. Councillor Evans stated
that there are rumors of another plant closure on the Westside, and that will be several hundred
jobs lost. He said that they are being proactive, and hopefully beginning to have discussions with
those manufactures to see about their wellbeing.
Mr. Brown asked Mr. Pierce if he knows if they are using the clawback funds to pay for the
$71,000 match. Mr. Pierce stated that to his knowledge, the $71,000 will come from Mayor
Hogsett’s Carrier Task Force fund. Aaron Atwell, Deputy Controller of Budgeting, Office of
Finance and Management (OFM), stated that he believes that the fund is set up through the
clawback, but he will double-check to make sure. Mr. Brown asked if it will be part of the
Consolidated County General Fund. Mr. Atwell answered in the affirmative, stating that he will
double-check and make sure.
Councillor Adamson stated that the resolution seems to reference Carrier, Inc. throughout, but
Councillor Evans mentioned the rumor of another plant possibly closing. He asked if this
position would be working on a general plan of retooling or just with regard to Carrier, Inc. Mr.
Pierce stated that it will not just be for Carrier. The EDA encourages the City to put together a
plan with the issues regarding industrial sites.
Councillor Evans moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, to send Proposal No. 261, 2016 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 8-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2016 – a final bond ordinance for Hellenic Senior Living of Indianapolis,
LLC for the issuance of multi-family revenue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $16,500,000 to provide a portion of the cost of the acquisition, design, construction and
equipping of a 125-unit assisted living multi-family housing facility, with functionally related
and subordinate facilities for low and moderate income seniors (District 23)
Dave Corbitt, Counsel, Kreig DeVault, stated that the Economic Development Commission
(EDC) held a public hearing on July 6, 2016 concerning the project and financing. He said that
no one was present to state any opposition to the resolution, and the EDC has not received any
written comments for or against the project. Mr. Corbitt stated that the EDC approved the
financing for the project. He said that these bonds are not general obligations to the City, but are
special limited obligations payable solely from loan payments from the borrower.
Tenley Drescher-Rhoades, Counsel, Faegre Baker and Daniels, stated that the project is for a
125-unit assisted living facility for low income seniors, which will be eligible for Medicaid
waiver reimbursement payments. She said that the project will be located at 8601 Shelby Street
in Perry Township, Council District 23, on an approximate five-acre parcel. Ms. DrescherRhoades stated that this project will create approximately 48 permanent jobs, and the cost of the
project will be $23.29 million, which is to be funded by $16.5 million of tax exempt multi-family
housing bonds and $6.7 million of Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) proceeds.
Chair Osili asked what the interest rate was. Ms. Drescher stated that it is 6.25%.

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 8

Mr. Biesecker stated that in the resolution, Section 4, there is a blank line. He asked what the
figure should be. Ms. Drescher stated that she does not have that figure on hand, but will forward
it to Mr. Biesecker.
Chair Osili asked since that piece of information is missing, how they should proceed with the
proposal. Mr. Biesecker stated that if Ms. Drescher knows what the information should be, they
can fill it in in the proposal at this meeting, or they can let him know and they can fill it in at the
full Council on July 18, 2016.
Matt Carr, Bond Counsel, Quarles & Brady, stated that these homes are intended to address the
changing demographics of the aging population. He said that Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) funding for affordable housing for seniors being funded by Congress. Mr. Carr said that
this particular developer has the last HUD Section 202 grant. Chair Osili asked if HUD Section
202 has ceased. Mr. Carr said that statutorily it has not been, but it is not been funded.
Mr. Carr stated that the other alternative to address the need for low income housing for seniors
has been the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program; and unfortunately, that
program is competitive and oftentimes it entails getting additional soft funds which are not
always available. He said that with regard to assisted living, 80% of seniors cannot afford market
rate assisted living. Mr. Carr said that in Indiana, there is a desire to rebalance the care and
housing of seniors to place them in residential facilities that are home and community based,
rather than institutions. Mr. Carr stated that 20 to 40% of individuals in nursing homes could be
better taken care of in assisted living facilities.
Mr. Carr said that they are combining the 4% of the LIHTC with tax exempt bonds to get the
facilities built, and then relying upon the Medicaid waivers for assisted living services to help
pay for operations to service the debt. He said that they are leveraging federal dollars to bring
these facilities into local communities.
Mr. Carr said that the difference between a market-rate facility and an affordable assisted living
facility is that with an affordable assisted living facility the residents have to be low income, at or
below 60% Area Median Income (AMI). He said that there is an asset test to determine if they
qualify for the Medicaid waivers as well. He said that the market-rate is where they have some
residents that will not satisfy the asset test. They will have to spend down their assets before they
go to Medicaid, but when the resident reaches that point, they will stay in their unit.
Mr. Carr gave a brief Powerpoint presentation in detail, which is attached as Exhibit B. Some key
points are:




Affordable Assisted Living Facilities (AALF)
o Combines the LIHTC and the State’s Medicaid waiver reimbursement programs
 Rents are capped at 60% Area Median Income (AMI)
 Assisted living services through Aged and Disabled waiver program
AALF Amenities
o Three nutritionally-balanced meals per day
o Snack and beverages available 24/7

Metropolitan & Economic Development Committee
July 11, 2016
Page 9






o Housekeeping and laundry
o Blood pressure screenings
o Activities
Supportive Services
o Medication delivery and reminders
o Bathing, dressing, grooming, eating and toileting
Gardant Management Solutions (GMS)
o Founded in 1999
o Largest assisted living operator in Illinois
o Operator of 40 Illinois AALF’s
 Overall occupancy rate is 93.8%
Hellenic Senior Living of Indianapolis
o Located at 8601 and 8607 Shelby Street in Perry Township
o Dwelling units is 125
 Fifty percent efficiency units (401 SF)
 Seventy-five one bedroom units
 Estimated costs of $23.5 million

Councillor Kreider stated that he has not heard any new complaints from the residents in his
district about the project, and was wondering if there was anything new added to the project. Mr.
Carr answered in the negative.
Councillor Miller asked out of the 38 new jobs, how many are above or below $12 an hour. Mr.
Carr stated that he understands the concern and it has been expressed.
Mr. Biesecker stated that the ordinance identifies the address as 8601 Shelby Street, and the
presentation has the address as 8601 and 8607 Shelby Street. He asked if both addresses should
be in the ordinance. Mr. Carr stated that they are in the process of combining the two parcels, but
he does not know where they stand as of this moment.
Councillor Kreider moved, seconded by Councillor Adamson, to send Proposal No. 263, 2016 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 8-0.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Metropolitan and Economic
Development Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 7:33 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

VO/lw

_______________________________
Vop Osili, Chair
Metropolitan Development Committee



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

DATE:

June 22, 2009

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:34 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:34 p.m.

ATTENDANCE

ABSENT
Kent Smith

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Mike Speedy, Chair
Paul Bateman
Susie Day
Benjamin Hunter
Maggie Lewis
Doris Minton-McNeill

AGENDA

Presentation on Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) – Bill Taft, Executive Director
PROPOSAL NO. 208, 2009 - approves an appropriation of $450,000 in the 2009 Budget
of the Marion County Guardian Home (County General Fund) to fund the ongoing
operations and maintenance of the Guardian Home for 2009
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
Update on Children’s Guardian Home – David Reynolds, City Controller
Public Comment on possible closure of the Children’s Guardian Home

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The Community Affairs Committee of the City-County Council met on Monday, June 22,
2009. Chair Mike Speedy called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m. with the following
members present: Paul Bateman, Susie Day, Benjamin Hunter, Maggie Lewis and Doris
Minton-McNeill. Absent was Kent Smith.
Presentation on Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) – Bill Taft, Executive Director,
and Mary Clark, Co-chair of Neighbor Power
Ms. Clark stated that the Neighbor Power event is bringing together many of the different
communities to uplift some of the great things happening in neighborhoods. She said that
Neighbor Power is hoping that those communities will share with each other and talk about
ways to make the city a better place to live, work and play.
Mr. Taft stated that LISC is excited about the opportunity to join with Neighbor Power to
gather people who are giving their time everyday to make their neighborhood a better
place. He said that this event will give them a chance to celebrate what the different
neighborhoods have accomplished and to share with others on how they improved their
neighborhood. Mr. Taft stated that Neighbor Power will be attended by neighborhood
residents, community group leaders and business owners. Mr. Taft stated that LISC is a
non-profit organization that supports neighborhood-based organizations and making
neighborhoods more livable. He said that LISC uses loans, grants, technical assistance
and training to support those neighborhood-based organizations and has been involved
with those organizations since 1992. He said that technical assistance can be provided,
but there need to be more people involved. Mr. Taft stated that the Neighbor Power event
will be on October 16-17, 2009 at the University of Indianapolis. He said that there will be
an awards program on the first night that will give awards for projects, programs and
people from all over the city that are carrying forward some of the principals of healthy
neighborhoods. He said that on the second day, there will be an all-day gathering where
information will be shared through workshops and presentations for residents. Mr. Taft
stated that this event is free to all participants. Mr. Taft stated that LISC and Neighbor
Power is asking for the committee’s help in spreading the word to their constituents about
the event and asking if anyone has a story to share. He said that that the week preceding
the event will become neighbor week, which will celebrate volunteers and other
neighborhood-based organizations that are involved in the success of Indianapolis.
Councillor Minton-McNeill stated that her neighborhood is connected to Greater
Indianapolis Neighborhood Initiatives (GINI). She said there have been some challenges
on the west side of Indianapolis, and they have really been on task to change and she is
grateful to be a part of that effort. Ms. Clark stated that those are the kind of stories that
they are looking to tell.
Councillor Bateman stated that one thing that is essential is that LISC has a database of
all of the programs in the different communities. He said that sharing that information is
key, and it changes the paradigm on how communities are reinvented.

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 2
Councillor Lewis asked how someone can contact LISC. Mr. Taft stated that individuals
can contact him at wtaft@lisc.org.
Chair Speedy asked if Neighbor Power has recruited all of the speakers for the event. Mr.
Taft stated that they are sending out a call for entry in about a week. Chair Speedy asked
if there is a way to register for the event ahead of time. Mr. Taft answered in the
affirmative, stating that people can go to www.greatindyneighborhoods.org to get all of the
information and register.
PROPOSAL NO. 208, 2009 - approves an appropriation of $450,000 in the 2009 Budget
of the Marion County Guardian Home (County General Fund) to fund the ongoing
operations and maintenance of the Guardian Home for 2009
David Reynolds, City Controller, stated that this proposal transfer $35,000 from Characters
02 and 03 to Character 01, Personal Services, and also appropriates an additional
$415,000, which represents the state reimbursement that has come to the Guardian Home
since January, 2009. He said that these funds are not new money. At the time the budget
was being worked on, it was unclear as to whether or not the state was going to provide a
reimbursement. He said that the state has provided the reimbursement, so these funds are
appropriating that reimbursement. Mr. Reynolds stated that the funds will be used to
provide for the ongoing maintenance and upkeep of the facility upon its potential closure
on June 30, 2009. Mr. Reynolds stated that those funds will be used for utilities, security,
mowing of the grass, and paying employees the accrued leave that they are entitled to
upon termination.
Chair Speedy asked if the $415,000 is already in the budget. Mr. Reynolds stated that the
$415,000 is a new appropriation, along with a transfer of $35,000, for a total of $450,000
that is going into Character 01; and it is not included in the budget.
Councillor Hunter asked if the $450,000 is a new appropriation in Character 01. Mr.
Reynolds answered in the affirmative. Councillor Hunter asked if that amount is to pay out
existing salaries and benefits if there is a closure on June 30, 2009, and asked if Mr.
Reynolds made the reference that this amount was to keep the lights on at the facility. Mr.
Reynolds answered in the affirmative, stating that the Guardian Home is operating with a
shortage in their Character 01 budget. He said that there are excess funds in Characters
02 and 03 to transfer to Character 01 to deal with those salaries and personnel issues. Mr.
Reynolds stated that the $450,000 has to go toward that. Councillor Hunter asked if this
appropriation is being put into Character 01 to address the salary issues. Mr. Reynolds
answered in the affirmative. Councillor Hunter asked if these funds were appropriated at
the time of the budget. Mr. Reynolds stated that at the time Office of Finance and
Management (OFM) was preparing the budget; these funds were not appropriated
because it was not clear if the state was going to provide for a reimbursement to the
Guardian Home.
Councillor Speedy asked how far in arrears the Guardian Home is on personal services.
Mr. Reynolds stated that OFM is projecting that if this appropriation does not occur,
Character 01 will be $350,000 short.

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 3
Councillor Hunter asked what the total cost to fund Character 01 for the whole year will be.
Mr. Reynolds stated that if the Guardian Home continued to operate at the same level it
has, in the following six months, the total for personal services would be $826,000 for the
Guardian Home. Councillor Hunter asked if the Marion County Commissioners voted to
keep the Guardian Home facility open. Mr. Reynolds stated that the Commissioners did
reverse their resolution, which closed the Home, in order to spend some more time to
ensure that all of the children were being dealt with in a satisfactory method. He said that
OFM is continuing to work with the Commissioners to make sure there is a plan in place
that deals with all of the children.
Councillor Hunter asked if the Commissioners were comfortable with closing down the
Guardian Home because of lack of support from Department of Child Services (DCS) or if
the Commissioners are envisioning reversing their decision to keep the facility open and
functioning. Greg Bowes, County Assessor, stated that there were two steps taken in this
process. He said that at the April 16, 2009 meeting of the County Commissioners, a
resolution was passed that recommended that the Guardian Home cease its operation to
provide emergency shelter care for children on June 30, 2009. Mr. Bowes stated that there
was an effort pledged at the first meeting that concerns from the Commissioners be
addressed, like how the remaining children being served by the Home would be served at
an adequate alternative setting. Mr. Bowes stated that since the April, 2009 meeting and
up until their May 27, 2009 meeting of the Commissioners, there was discussion with Mr.
Reynolds, and representatives from the Juvenile Court, the Probation Department and
DCS where there were many alternatives explored. Those alternatives, in his opinion,
were not adequate to ensure that the children were being taken care of. He said that
caused him to recommend a proposal to the Commissioners that the recommendation to
close the Home be rescinded. He said that the Commissioners voted 3-0 unanimously to
rescind the recommendation to close. Mr. Bowes stated that the official word from the
Commissioners is that there will be emergency shelter care services offered until further
notice. He said that if the Guardian Home continuing to operate at the same level it has
been does not take into account the fact that the referrals of children have shrunk
dramatically. Councillor Hunter asked if the referrals are from DCS. Mr. Bowes stated that
DCS is only one source. He said that the other source is the Juvenile Court. Councillor
Hunter asked if the director of DCS, James Payne has stated that he will not send children
to the Guardian Home. Mr. Bowes answered in the affirmative. Mr. Bowes stated that the
services that the Guardian Home provides are very good. The children that come there
receive an immediate health, dental and mental needs assessment. He said that it is a
licensed childcare facility that provides food, shelter and a safe and healthy environment.
He said that the Guardian Home is not as rigid as going into a foster home.
Councillor Hunter asked Mr. Bowes to walk him through the referrals from the Juvenile
Court. Mr. Bowes stated that the cases that are referred by the Juvenile Court would be
children who are status offenders. He said that status offenders are children who may
have curfew violations, truancy cases, runaways and others who are brought into the court
system because they are accused of criminal activity at a low level and they do not pose a
threat if they are released. Mr. Bowes stated that those children are not quite ready to go
back to their particular home setting, so they are sent to an institutional or foster care
setting.

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 4
Councillor Bateman asked what the current level of occupancy at the Guardian Home is.
Mr. Reynolds stated that he believes that there are two children there. Councillor Bateman
asked if the occupancy varies from day to day. Mr. Reynolds answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Bateman asked what the average number of children at the Guardian Home in
a week’s time is. Mr. Bowes stated that the average population count from the beginning
of the year through the end of April, 2009 was just under 14 children. Councillor Bateman
asked if there is a plan B just in case. Mr. Reynolds answered in the affirmative, and said
that there was a memo distributed to the committee stating that the state feels that they
have appropriate settings for their children. On the county side, the children that are the
City’s responsibility to make sure that they are placed. He said that the Juvenile Court has
been working with Lutherwood, Washington Place and the Family Support Center, and
they believe that they have identified sufficient beds at those facilities to deal with the
children that will be presented to them. Councillor Minton-McNeill asked if all of the
children are referred from the Juvenile Court or are there any referrals from schools. Rosie
Butler, Director, Marion County Guardian Home, stated that referrals come through DCS
or the Juvenile Court. She said that the children have to come to the Guardian Home in an
official capacity, and that has just been in the last couple of years. Ms. Butler stated that in
the past, the Guardian Home received referrals from police officers and schools.
Councillor Minton-McNeill stated that Mr. Bowes said that there will be no more children
after June 30, 2009 from the Juvenile Court. She asked what will happen to the other
children that are funneled into the system. Ms. Butler stated that, apparently, there are
three or four agencies that are being utilized to take the place of the Guardian Home.
Councillor Minton-McNeill asked if there was meaningful placement for the children at the
Guardian Home in case something happens. Ms. Butler stated that she has nothing to do
with that issue. She said that her understanding is that DCS has made arrangements.
Councillor Day asked if these funds were needed whether the Guardian Home closes at
the end of June, 2009 or continues to function. Mr. Reynolds answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Day moved, seconded by Councillor Hunter, to send Proposal No. 208, 2009 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
Update on Children’s Guardian Home – David Reynolds, City Controller
Mr. Reynolds stated that prior to 2009; the Guardian Home was funded with County
General Fund dollars and funding from the Family and Children’s Fund. He said that the
Family and Children’s Fund was funded through a property tax levy, and it was roughly a
50/50 split. Mr. Reynolds stated that with the passing of House Bill 1001, 2008, the state
did major changes with property tax reform, and one of the changes is that they took over
the Family and Children’s Fund. In 2009, the state is now funding that program, so any of
those services are the state’s responsibility. Mr. Reynolds stated that when that shift
occurred, the state notified the county that funding the Guardian Home out of the Family
and Children’s Fund was not going to continue. He said that effective January 1, 2009 the
state ceased funding the Guardian Home. Mr. Reynolds stated that the County built their
budget with the ongoing County General Fund money and passed a budget of $1.1 million
of County General Fund dollars, and that is what the Guardian Home has been operating
under. Mr. Reynolds stated that OFM started working with the state to have more time to

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 5
work through what the state has told them. He said that the state agreed to fund the
Guardian Home through June 30, 2009. Mr. Reynolds stated that the state has done what
they said they were going to do. They have dramatically reduced the number of
placements to the Guardian Home, and effective June 1st, the state’s plan is in place and
there have been only three or four placements at the Guardian Home. He said that the
state is continuing to refine their program to make sure that they have services for all of
the children.
Mr. Reynolds stated that there has been a lot of work since April to understand that the
children are being dealt with in the most appropriate way. He said that the County has
identified resources through Lutherwood, Washington Place and the Family Support
Center that will be in place by July 1, 2009, so that children that need those services can
be placed. Mr. Reynolds stated that the state has agreed to fund the first forty-eight hours
of emergency shelter care, as long as the facility is a licensed titled 4E eligible facility. Mr.
Reynolds stated that OFM feels that they have put in place a plan that deals with providing
the services necessary for the children in Marion County. He said that the Guardian Home
has a great support network, and there are people that have been volunteering their time,
talent and resources to the Guardian Home. He said that the Guardian Home has asked
OFM to be mindful of those donations and commitment, and has asked them to work with
them to make sure that it is not as simple as going in and boarding the place up and
auctioning all of the assets. He said that OFM is working with the Guardian Home on that.
Councillor Lewis asked if the recommendation is to stop operation of the Guardian Home
on June 30th. Mr. Reynolds answered in the affirmative. Councillor Lewis asked if that is
adequate time for Mr. Bowes and the Commissioners to get the answers they need. Mr.
Bowes stated that he does not have an answer for that question.
Councillor Speedy asked if there has been a study on possible reuse of the facility and the
cost analysis on using that facility. Mr. Reynolds stated that he is not sure if there was a
meeting to discuss the reuse of the facility. He said that there has not been a cost analysis
done, because the state has made it clear that they are not going to send children to the
Guardian Home. He said that the Guardian Home continues to exist, but if the state is not
going to send children there, there is no point in keeping it open.
Councillor Hunter asked if there are any arrangements to keep those employees on
anywhere in the County. Mr. Reynolds stated that the Human Resources Department has
been out to the Guardian Home working with those employees to let them know there are
other opportunities in city and county employment. He said that some employees have
already left the Guardian Home and have taken employment in the city and county.
Councillor Hunter asked who makes up the reuse authority and who grants that authority.
Mr. Bowes stated that he does not remember who makes up the authority. He said that
they wanted an appointment from someone in the Irvington community, an appointment
from the Mayor’s Office, someone who had expertise in reusing a facility like the Guardian
Home and one of the Commissioners.
Councillor Hunter asked if Mr. Bowes would object to an amendment contingent to the
funding. Mr. Bowes stated that the objection he has is that the latest official word about

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 6
whether that facility will cease operation as an emergency childcare facility is that it will not
close. He said that he objects to talking about doing something with an assumption that
the home will be closed. He said that there should not be any discussion.
Councillor Bateman said that he is sure that there was a cost analysis on what it would
cost to run the facility as opposed to how much it would cost to parcel it out to the different
agencies. Mr. Reynolds stated that the per diem that the state agreed to between January
and June, 2009 was $121 dollars per day per child, and that was based on the operating
costs at the Guardian Home. Brant Ping, Best Practices Group, stated that he has talked
with all three facilities, and the advantage that all three facilities offer is that they are 4E
eligible. He said that DCS has agreed to pay the initial funds for the first forty-eight hours
and then seek federal reimbursement. Mr. Ping stated that if it is 4E reimbursement, it is
60% of their per diem. Mr. Ping stated that they are waiting on information from the three
facilities on what their per diem will be. Mr. Reynolds stated that it will be a combination of
state and federal funding that will provide for the care of those children. Councillor
Bateman asked if the committee can get the per diem information at a later date. Mr.
Reynolds answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Lewis asked if the three facilities are prepared to take the children on July 1st.
Mr. Reynolds answered in the affirmative, stating that although he has not talked directly
with them, Mr. Ping has been in contact with them and they are prepared to accept the
children.
Chair Speedy asked what the decision was at the state to stop referring children to the
Guardian Home. He asked if this decision was executive or if it was responsive to state or
federal legislation. Mr. Reynolds stated that he is not the appropriate person to answer that
question. Mr. Ping stated that Children In Need of Services (CHINS) statute requires that
they seek the most restrictive home-like setting anytime a child is removed. He said DCS
started to seek out and place the children with relatives.
Public Comment on possible closure of the Children’s Guardian Home
John Barnes, State Representative, District 89, stated that he is a lifelong eastside
resident who grew up in Irvington. He said that growing up in Irvington; individuals went to
school and church and at some point, were involved with the Guardian Home. He said that
not only is the facility located in Irvington, but it is embraced by the community. Mr. Barnes
stated that people in his district are concerned over the closing of the Guardian Home and
by the fact that there does not seem to be a plan that would provide the same 24-hour
emergency service that would shelter children at risk and keep siblings together in the
same way the Guardian Home has been able to do. He said that his constituents’ concern
is that there really has not been much of a chance for public input. He said that the public
is asking why this is happening so quickly and why the public was not informed. Mr.
Barnes stated that his concern is that they make sure that it is done slowly and the
community is involved.

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 7
Lettie Oliver, Associate Director, American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees (AFSCME), stated that her concern is what will happen to the children in the
community. She said that it was not known until a vote was taken that the Guardian Home
was going to close. Ms. Oliver stated that what gravely disturbed her is that no one on the
committee was of color, and everyone does not understand what is happening to all
children culturally. She said that what is great about the Guardian Home is that the staff is
very diverse, and they reflect the people that come into the community and the Guardian
Home. Ms. Oliver stated that there are a lot of questions that have not been answered.
She asks that the Guardian Home continue to stay open.
Kathryn Stewart, citizen, said that the Guardian Home is part of the culture in Irvington.
She said that Institutional placement is not the trend right now, and it seems that foster
parents are supposedly the best model. Ms. Stewart stated that they have lost sight of
what is best for the children. It seems that it is all about saving the County money on the
backs of the children. Ms. Stewart asked if the City can provide funding for Lucas Oil
Stadium (LOS) and the Convention Center, why it is so hard to provide funding for the
children.
Councillor Lewis asked even if there was funding to keep the facility open, if the state not
referring any children there will still stand. Councillor Hunter stated that his understanding
is that the state is really driving the issue that they are not going to use the facility and not
going to send children there. Councillor Lewis stated that if the state is not going to send
any children there, and the city continues to drop money into the facility with no one there;
they will look silly funding a facility with no purpose.
Councillor Minton-McNeill asked if Lutherwood, Washington Place and the Family Support
Center are located in residential neighborhoods. Mr. Ping stated that the Family Support
Center is located on Martin Luther King Boulevard at 16th Street, Lutherwood is located on
Ritter Avenue across from Community Hospital East, and Washington Place is located on
Washington Boulevard. Councillor Minton-McNeill asked if these current facilities are
servicing the type of children that DCS will be sending there. Mr. Ping answered in the
affirmative.
Betty Metts, Chaplain, Guardian Home, stated that she would like to see a monitoring
system for foster care so that the children who have come to the Guardian Home have
been treated equally. She said that during this meeting, she has not heard anyone
mention what is best for the children.
Margie Nackenhorst, citizen, stated that she has been volunteering at the Guardian Home
for over 30 years. She said that she loves the Home and the children that are there. She
said that she cannot believe what is happening. Ms. Nackenhorst asked what will happen
to the children when this facility closes. She said that the Guardian Home is a fully
licensed facility in the Irvington neighborhood, and Marion County needs it. She asked that
the director of DCS be required to use the Guardian Home.
Debbie Nackenhorst, citizen, stated that she has been involved with the Bible club at the
Guardian Home. She said that she is not sure that foster care fits with everyone and does
not know where the children will go. It has been a blessing to her and her family to have

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 8
the Guardian Home in her community and she would like more options for the children.
Councillor Hunter stated that he knows that hearing that the Guardian Home is closing is
painful, but this committee is not who has made that decision.
Ernie Shearer, citizen, stated that Indiana cannot pass the state budget, and asked how
are they going to deal with these issues and keep the Guardian Home open. He said that
the system is failing these children by sending them back into the situations that they
should have never been in to begin with. Mr. Shearer stated that they can open up a
thousand Guardian Homes, but until DCS, the state and county take control of the
situation, the children will continue to suffer.
Reverend Mmoja Ajabu stated that he does not know about this issue to the depth of
some of the people that have spoken. He said that if the City is making a decision about
children that decision needs to be in their best interest. The city and state needs to find the
funding for the Guardian Home.
Candy Faulkner, citizen, stated that she was a resident of the Guardian Home several
times as a child, and if it was not for the Guardian Home, she would not be standing here.
Ms. Faulkner stated that when the improvements were done at the Guardian Home, there
was a consensus taken from the public, the Mayor, City-County Council, County
Commissioners and DCS director, James Payne. All were in agreement to raise $8 million
to go toward the Guardian Home. She asked how the city can squander a resource like
the Guardian Home. Ms. Faulkner stated that the city and the community need to get
together to find a solution to the problem.
Councillor Bateman stated that he looks at this situation the same as when Central State
was closed. He said that it was the wrong decision for that facility to close, and closing the
Guardian Home is the wrong decision.
Councillor Hunter asked if some funding can be found in Character 01 to staff 30 people to
finish out the year at the Guardian Home. He asked if it would take about a half million
dollars. Mr. Reynolds stated that they are projected to spend $800,000 from January
through June 2009. He said that it would probably take $500,000 to $600,000 to fund a
smaller staff. Councillor Hunter asked if it is wise to fund a smaller staff in Character 01
while dealing with the issues with DCS sending children to the Guardian Home. Mr.
Reynolds stated that, ultimately, the funding decision rests with the Council. Councillor
Hunter asked where that funding would come from to reduce the staff. Mr. Reynolds stated
that the Council will have to appropriate those funds from the County General Fund
balance. He said that there will be no additional reimbursements from the state, and it
would be 100% county dollars. He said that the fund balance of the County General Fund
when the budget was passed in September 2008 was about $943,000. He said that it was
a projected balance at the time, and it has improved because of actions taken to reduce
spending. He said that the General Fund balance is probably closer to $3 million.
Councillor Minton-McNeill thanked everyone in attendance for their heartfelt testimony.
She said that she has heard each and every person, and she appreciates them coming
forward to express their concerns.

Community Affairs Committee
June 22, 2009
Page 9
New Business
Councillor Bateman stated that Saturday, June 27, 2009 is National Day of Health. He said
that the Devington Community Development Corporation is providing a Health Fair on that
day from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at 6004 East 46th Street, and all are welcome to attend.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Community Affairs
Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 7:34 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

_________________________
Mike Speedy, Chair
Community Affairs Committee
MS/law



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
DATE:

September 12, 2006

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:36 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:31 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
Attending Members
Joanne Sanders, Chair
Paul Bateman
Vernon Brown
Becky Langsford
Lynn McWhirter
Jackie Nytes
Lincoln Plowman

Absent Members
None

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 434, 2006 - adopts the annual budget for the Revenue Bonds Debt
Service Funds for 2007 (Administration and Finance portion only).
“Do Pass as Amended”
Vote 7–0
PROPOSAL NO. 436, 2006 - adopts the annual budget for Indianapolis and Marion
County for 2007 (Administration and Finance portion only).
“Do Pass as Amended”
Vote 6 -0

ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
The Administration and Finance Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday, September 12,
2006. Chair Joanne Sanders called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m. with the following members present:
Vernon Brown, Becky Langsford, Lynn McWhirter, Jackie Nytes, and Lincoln Plowman. Paul Bateman
arrived shortly thereafter. Bart Brown, Council Chief Financial Officer, represented Council staff.
Present from the Office of Finance and Management were Robert Clifford, Controller, Jeff Seidenstein,
Budget Manager, and Kim Diller, Budget Director.
Chair Sanders stated that Michael Rodman, Treasurer, and Cindy Land, Administrative Deputy Treasurer,
would give a brief overview regarding property tax and property tax replacement credits. Ms. Land
distributed handouts to the committee including Annually Adjusting Assessed Values Fact Sheet (exhibit
A), Property Tax Replacement Credit (PTRC) Withholding Fact Sheet (exhibit B), and Property Tax Data
Collection and County Compliance sheet (exhibit C). [Clerk’s note: A copy of Exhibits A - C are on file
in the Council Office with the original set of minutes.]
Mr. Rodman stated that the following are the most important issues regarding property taxes: getting bills
out on time, completing trending, and getting state certification. He said several departments have a
responsibility to complete these tasks, but all are reliant on each other to get everything finished. He said
that the state is withholding PTRC funds from counties that are not compliant, including $17 million from
Marion County. He added that the state could choose to withhold another $12 - $13 million, which would
create a hardship for the county.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Bateman arrived 5:39 PM]
Chair Sanders asked for what period of time could the state withhold the funds. Ms. Land stated the
Controller entered an agreement with the state through fiscal year 2009. The state will be withholding
$3,207,536 from every Marion County distribution and there are six distributions per year. She added
that in 2007 the state would withhold $19 million from the county’s portion of PTRC..
Councillor Nytes asked if the amount being withheld is part of the arrangement that was negotiated to pay
arrearages on the DOC bill. Mr. Rodman answered in the affirmative. Councillor Nytes asked if the state
could choose to withhold additional funds due to compliance issues. Mr. Rodman answered in the
affirmative. Councillor Nytes asked what amount the State could withhold. Mr. Rodman stated that it
could be an additional $10 million. Councillor Nytes clarified that the state could withhold funds from
the county, but it would not withhold funds from the other units of government. Ms. Land answered in
the affirmative and added that it would affect the reassessment fund, debt service fund, and capital
improvement bond. She stated that those could indirectly affect the City. Councillor Nytes asked if this
would cause a shortage in the levy. Mr. Clifford answered in the affirmative.
Chair Sanders asked if there was a deadline for county compliance. Mr. Rodman stated that only the state
could answer that question. He added that several counties are not in compliance.
Councillor McWhirter wanted clarification regarding the handout dated August 2006 [Clerk’s note: A
copy of Exhibit D is on file in the Council Office with the original set of minutes.] that appears to show
Marion County in compliance. Ms. Land stated that there was an additional memorandum [Clerk’s note:
A copy of Exhibit E is on file in the Council Office with the original set of minutes.] issued from the state
citing in which areas Marion County is noncompliant and added that Mr. Paul Ricketts, Lawrence
Assessor, would be better able to discuss this issue. Councillor Nytes asked if the state would withhold
an additional $10 million on our levy or would rates be recalculated. Mr. Rodman stated that rates would

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 2
not change and it would be a $10 million shortfall in the budgets. Ms. Land stated that the County is the
only unit that is impacted by PTRC withholding; however, if tax bills are not issued in a timely manner it
will impact all other units. Mr. Brown asked how Marion County compares to the other 10 counties that
have had PTRC withheld. Ms. Land stated that some of the counties are not attempting to be in
compliance.
Councillor McWhirter asked Mr. Ricketts where the Assessors are in the reassessment process. Mr.
Ricketts stated he does not understand why the Treasurer is being asked about compliance on data from
the Assessors, since the Treasurer has nothing to do with that data. Chair Sanders stated that the
Treasurer was invited because they have information regarding revenue flow that may impact on the
committee’s decisions when voting on budgets. Mr. Ricketts stated that the Treasurer would not know
where the Assessors are in terms of compliance. He said that the Assessors are working with ISA and an
old system. He said the Assessors are trying to purchase a new one. He stated that the Assessors are
compliant and sent their data to the State over three weeks ago; the report that the committee is looking at
is dated August 2006. He said Melissa Henson, director of Department of Local Government Finance
(DLGF), told him that the state would not withhold PTRC if the Assessors were moving forward with
acquiring a new system. He added that there are counties around the state that have chosen to accept
PTRC withholding in lieu of purchasing a more expensive new system. Chair Sanders asked when the
Assessors would be compliant. Mr. Ricketts stated that they would not be compliant with personal
property assessment until the new system is purchased. Chair Sanders asked if it would be another 18
months before the county is compliant. Mr. Ricketts stated in the affirmative. Mr. Clifford stated that he
is also the Chairperson of Information Technology Board for the City and County and they have been
working closely with the Assessors, Treasurer, and Auditor on the assessment system. He added that the
State has not certified any assessment system and does not believe that they will withhold PTRC funds for
noncompliance until they start certifying systems. Mr. Brown wanted to clarify that the data that was
turned in to the State in July was actually due in January. He added that the 10 noncompliant counties on
the list are noncompliant based on something other than a certified computer system.
Chair Sanders stated her appreciation to all that came in to help explain the issue with the new property
tax requirements and requested that they keep the committee updated on this issue.
PROPOSAL NO. 434, 2006 - adopts the annual budget for the Revenue Bonds Debt Service Funds for
2007 (Administration and Finance portion only).
Mr. Seidenstein gave a summary of budget changes that are being proposed by the Controller’s Office
[Exhibit G, attached] as highlighted in the amendment.
Councillor Nytes asked if the interest had to stay in the fund on which it’s drawn. Mr. Seidenstein stated in
the affirmative and added that it goes to the fund balance.
Councillor McWhirter stated that in the original proposal (Exhibit F, attached) the Controller had $975,000
in the County Cumulative Fund and not in miscellaneous. Mr. Seidenstein stated in the affirmative and said
that the $975,000 should be coming from transportation general and is correct in the amendment if not in the
presentation.
Councillor Nytes moved, seconded by Councillor Bateman, to “Amend” Proposal No. 434, 2006
(Administration and Finance portion only) per Exhibit G. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0.

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 3
Councillor Nytes moved, seconded by Councillor Bateman to send Proposal No. 434, 2006
(Administration and Finance portion only) to the full Council with a “Do Pass as Amended”
recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 436, 2006 - adopts the annual budget for Indianapolis and Marion County for 2007
(Administration and Finance portion only).
Mr. Clifford gave a summary of budget changes that are being proposed by the Controller’s Office [Exhibit
I, attached] as highlighted in the amendment. He added that sections from the original proposal that had no
changes were not in the amendment.
Mr. Clifford stated that there are no changes in the budget of the Office of the Mayor, because most of the
staff are either new employees or have received a promotion within the last two years. Chair Sanders
wanted clarification about salary increases for the employees. Mr. Clifford stated that the Office of the
Mayor has enough money in their budget to give raises to those who have gone without for two years.
Ms. Diller stated that most of the changes in the budget are due to the 3% salary increases for staff. She
said the Office of Corporation Counsel has an increase in character one to accommodate an attorney that
is transferring from the Indianapolis Police Department (IPD) to the Office of Corporation Counsel. She
stated that the Office of Finance and Management had a decrease in character 3, due to decreased
overhead spending with ISA.
Chair Sanders asked if there would be a shift in funding from IPD to Office of Corporation Counsel for
the attorney position. Ms. Diller answered in the affirmative. Councillor Brown asked if the IPD attorney
is an IPD officer. Ms. Diller stated in the affirmative. Mr. Kobi Wright, Office of Corporation Counsel,
stated that the attorney is an IPD Lieutenant and IPD legal services will move to Office of Corporation
Counsel.
Ms. Diller stated that the Auditor’s budget reflects the 3% salary increase as well as an increase passed by
the Community Affairs Committee for soil and water and the Noble Center. Ms. Diller stated in Section
1.04, the County Election Board increases are also due to 3% salary increases.
Chair Sanders stated that there was difficulty last year funding for an election year and asked if that would
be a problem this year. Ms. Diller stated that both the County Election Board and Voter Registration has
been funded for their total request.
Ms. Diller stated that the County General Fund for the County Assessors is increasing for the 3% salary
increase, but would have a zero fund balance at the end of 2007. She added that this will be discussed
again at the September 18th Council Meeting.
Ms. Diller stated that the Marion County Children’s Guardian Home would be moved from the Family
and Children Services Fund to the County General Fund, as decided by the Community Affairs
Committee. She added that the amendment also included the 3% salary increase.
Councillor Brown stated for clarification that the 3% salary increase would be for non-contractual
employees that have not received a raise in 3-4 years.
Councillor Nytes asked why Guardian Home was moved to County General Fund. Mr. Clifford stated
that it had always been funded out of the County General Fund, but was earlier proposed by the OFM to

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 4
be funded by Family and Children Services. After much discussion, OFM decided to continue the
practice of funding the Guardian Home from the County General Fund..
Mr. Seidenstein stated that the changes for Consolidated County Fund are updates in 2006 fees and typing
corrections. He added that there was a problem in the estimated amounts to be received and the column
alignment was off. Alignment should shift down one line following licenses and permits.
Councillor McWhirter asked what revenues are being transferred to the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police
Department (IMPD) General Fund and Marion County General Fund. Mr. Seidenstein stated that the
transfer to the Marion County General Fund is from the Consolidated County Fund and is associated with
the Criminal Justice Planning Committee fiscal ordinance that will be introduced in the September 13
Public Safety Committee. He said that the transfer from the Consolidated County Fund to the IMPD
general fund will occur when IPD and the Sheriff’s Department become IMPD. Councillor McWhirter
stated that next year the City would be able to demonstrate a specified amount for IMPD from a specified
fund. Mr. Clifford answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes asked how the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) amount is decided every year. Mr.
Clifford stated that the Indianapolis Waterworks receive payments based on the levy amounts from IPS,
City of Indianapolis, Marion County, Municipal Corps, Hendricks County, Hamilton County, Johnson
County, etc. Councillor Nytes asked if there are any other PILOTS. Mr. Clifford stated that Health and
Hospital Corporation (HHC) and the Wastewater Treatment Plant also have PILOTS. He added that
HHC pays for police and fire services as a fee for service.
Councillor Brown asked if IUPUI was in a PILOT as well. Mr. Brown stated that IUPUI is on a fee for
service contract for fire protection services. Mr. Clifford stated that the contract is based on an agreement
negotiated in the 1980’s and it is essentially a PILOT that IUPUI voluntarily continues to make. Chair
Sanders asked if IUPUI was still paying 1980 rates. Mr. Clifford answered in the negative.
Mr. Seidenstein stated that the numbers in the Federal Grants Fund are merely corrections. He said the
corrections for Sinking Funds are a mistake on the Controller’s part. He stated that $4.2 million in County
Option Income Tax (COIT) funds are being transferred to pay for the pension debt service and $5.5
million would be transferred to the Pension Stabilization Fund for 2007.
Councillor Nytes asked if 2007 would be the first year the pension debt service payments are being made.
Mr. Clifford stated that interest payments were made in 2006 with the payments starting in 2007.
Councillor Nytes asked what the appropriation would be for that fund. Mr. Seidenstein stated that it is
$10,074,824.
Councillor Nytes stated that in the original proposal for the Metropolitan Thoroughfare Sinking Fund
there is a $9 million appropriation, but only $5 million in revenues, and asked if there is a significant fund
balance. Mr. Seidenstein stated that there is a levy for this.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor McWhirter left 6:30 PM]
Mr. Seidenstein stated that in the County General Fund there is a clarification of numbers and a transfer
from the Marion County Rainy Day Fund. Mr. Clifford added that the transfer to the City Sanitation
Fund would repay the loan for 200 additional jail beds. Mr. Seidenstein said that the crossed out line
items are for clean up and no funds are being changed or added. He added that these revenues do not
include levies.

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 5
Mr. Seidenstein stated that the handwritten corrections in the Marion County Cumulative Fund on the
amendment were made just prior to the meeting. He said the $785,000 transfer to the City would be to
help cover the cost of new IMPD vehicles.
Ms. Diller stated that the County Recorder’s Perpetuation Fund is decreased on advise from of the
Recorder’s staff. She said the Juvenile Incarceration Debt Service Fund and the County Rainy Day Fund
were left out of the original proposal.
Councillor Nytes asked if the Recorder’s fund changes would have an impact on any appropriations from
that fund. Ms. Diller stated that they would still have a fund balance over $3.5 million. Mr. Brown asked
if the PILOT under Juvenile Incarceration is for waterworks. Ms. Diller answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Nytes asked if it was Councillor Cockrum that was instrumental in getting the Rainy Day
Fund established. Mr. Brown stated that he might be the sponsor of the ordinance; however, the State
mandated that a fund be established to deposit a one-time COIT distribution.
Ms. Diller stated that Article Three reflects the funds that the Controller has completed. Mr. Clifford
stated that the Property Reassessment Fund assessed valuation numbers is the Controller’s attempt to
maintain the levy.
Councillor Nytes wanted confirmation that there would be no fund balance at the end of 2007. Ms. Diller
answered in the affirmative and stated that the property reassessment fund has been spent down over the
last few years because the levy has been lower than the appropriation. Councillor Nytes asked what
would happen in 2008. Ms. Diller stated that there would need to be a drastic change to increase revenue.
Councillor Nytes stated that there would have to be a significant structural change because this fund has
hit the wall. Chair Sanders said that the figures are off a line starting at line 5. Ms. Diller agreed.
Ms. Diller stated the Surveyor’s Corner Perpetuation Fund reflects the 3% salary increase. She stated the
County Recorder’s Perpetuation Fund reflects the revised revenue mentioned earlier as well as the 3%
salary increase.
Mr. Seidenstein stated the reduction on line two of the Information Services Internal Services Fund
reflects the cancellation of purchase orders. He added that Miscellaneous Revenues have increased due to
repayment for equipment purchased.
Ms. Diller stated that the Auditor’s Endorsement Fee Fund change reflects a corrected typographical
error.
Councillor Nytes asked if other agencies are canceling outstanding purchase orders. Mr. Seidenstein
stated that the Controller encourages all departments to close purchase orders when they are no longer
needed.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Bateman left 6:53 PM]
Ms. Diller stated that the HAVA Reimbursement Fund and the County Sales Disclosure Fee are not yet
corrected but will be by Monday, September 18.
Ms. Diller stated that the Juvenile Incarceration Debt Service reflects the completed figures for 2007.

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 6
Mr. Seidenstein stated that Article Four lists the professional organizations in which various agencies
have memberships. He added that the only addition was to Administration for membership in Central
Indiana American Society for Training and Development.
Councillor Nytes stated that the National Association of County Organizations (NACO) had considered
holding a convention in Indianapolis until the County dropped its membership. She added that Marion
County should be a member of NACO.
Councillor Nytes moved, seconded by Councillor Brown, to “Amend” Proposal No. 436, 2006 to include
membership in National Association of County Organizations. The motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Clifford asked under what agency would the Committee like to see the membership shown. Chair
Sanders stated that it was previously under administration. Councillor Nytes stated that the Controller
should look at budgets and make a suggestion.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Bateman returned 7:25 PM]
Mr. Seidenstein stated that Article five is the portion of the ordinance that addresses compensation of city
employees and other city county government officials. He said that the highlighted areas indicate certain
specialty or technical positions for which agency heads may request an above maximum salary when they
cannot fill those positions. He added that page 25 is an accidental repeat of the list of memberships.
Mr. Clifford stated that the National Association of Counties is listed under the Assessors budget.
Councillor Nytes stated that the President of NACO asked about dropping our membership, so that needs
to be checked on.
Councillor Plowman asked who sets elected officials’ salaries. Mr. Clifford stated that the City County
Council sets salaries because they are in City Code. Councillor Plowman asked if the 3% applied to
elected officials. Mr. Clifford stated that it does not, because the code states that the salaries will remain
as such until they are changed by an action of the City County Council. Mr. Brown stated that there is a
County Salary Panel that makes recommendations to the Council.
Councillor Nytes wanted clarification that there would not be a raise for the Council because the Mayor’s
Office is not raising salaries. Mr. Clifford answered in the affirmative. Councillor Nytes asked if salary
schedules were available for Courts or the Prosecutor’s office. Mr. Clifford stated that the Prosecutor’s
Office is on the same schedule as the Public Defender’s, but the Courts are not. He added that the Courts
budget does have a 3% salary increase. Ms. Diller stated the only raises the Courts gave were to the
probation officers because it was an unfunded state mandate.
Chair Sanders asked if the budgets included salary increases to bring up any employees that are earning
below the salary minimums. Mr. Clifford answered in the affirmative. Mr. Seidenstein stated that the 3%
increases would be based on merit evaluations. Mr. Brown asked if employees would be counseled about
their job performance. Mr. Seidenstein stated that this only applies to employees without collective
bargaining agreements.
Mr. Seidenstein stated that the salary ranges for appointed agency heads can be found within the salary
grades and there is a typographical correction under Director of Forensics Services Agency. He added
that the pay grades for hourly seasonal employees are included in this amendment, most of whom are

Administration and Finance Committee
September 12, 2006
Page 7
parks employees. He said there is a separate salary range for ISA technical and management positions
because these are highly competitive fields and the agency needs to be able to attract good employees.
Mr. Seidenstein stated that there are no changes in full time equivalents (FTE) for Executive and
Legislative Departments. He said the changes for the Department of Administration add the Equal
Opportunity Division employees that were left out of the original proposal. He said that Metropolitan
Development and Public Works reflect changes approved by other committees. He said the Department
of Public Safety may have changes, but they will not be proposed until after the September 13 Public
Safety Committee meeting.
Councillor Brown wanted clarification that the Department of Administration has a total of 45 employees
because the number is crossed out. Mr. Seidenstein answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Seidenstein stated that FTE numbers for IMPD and Parks & Recreation would be corrected following
the appropriate committee meetings. He said that there are no changes in FTE’s for County Agencies.
Councillor Brown asked if the Sheriffs Department FTE numbers were correct for 2007. Mr. Seidenstein
stated that those numbers came from an Ordinance passed last summer, so he believes they are correct.
However, the merit deputies were not included, but they will be for the Public Safety Committee meeting.
Councillor Nytes asked if there were any revisions to the County General Fund. Mr. Seidenstein stated
that there will be changes and the budgets will be updated before the September 18 Council meeting. Mr.
Clifford stated that the COIT distribution section will also be ready prior to September 18.
Councillor Brown stated that the amendment should read Proposal 436 instead of 432 and it should say
Madame Chair instead of Mr. Chairman. Mr. Seidenstein apologized and stated that the errors would be
corrected.
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor Nytes, to “Amend” Proposal No. 436, 2006
(Administration and Finance portion only) per Exhibit I. The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor Bateman to send Proposal No. 436, 2006
(Administration and Finance portion only) to the full Council with a “Do Pass as Amended”
recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
CONCLUSION
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Administration and Finance
Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 7:31 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Joanne Sanders, Chair
Administration and Finance Committee
JS/cc



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

DRAFT MINUTES of the

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

October 17, 2007

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:03 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

6:01 p.m.
ATTENDANCE
ABSENT MEMBERS
Lonnell Conley
Marilyn Pfisterer
Isaac Randolph

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Jackie Nytes, Chair
Joanne Sanders
André Carson
Virginia Cain

AGENDA
Proposal No. 449, 2007 - a final resolution for Bridgeport Crossing Apartment, LLC in an
amount not to exceed $9,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction and equipping of an
180-unit apartment complex at 2005 Bridgeport Road (Bridgeport Crossing Apartments Project)
(District 13)
“Do Pass”
Vote 4-0
Proposal No. 450, 2007 - a final resolution for Fox Lake Affordable Housing, Inc. (FARH) in an
amount not to exceed $29,700,000 for a full refunding of Multi-family Revenue Bonds Series
1999A and partial refunding of Multifamily Revenue Bonds Subordinate Series 1999B(Lake
Nora and Fox Club Projects)(Districts 3 & 20)
“Do Pass”
Vote 4-0
Proposal No. 451, 2007 - a final resolution for Pedcor Investments–2006–LXXXVIII in an
amount not to exceed $15,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction and equipping of a
220-unit apartment complex at West 79th Street and Township Line Road (Forest Ridge
Apartments Project)(District 7)
“Do Pass”
Vote 4-0
Proposal No. 452, 2007 - an inducement resolution for GMF Mann Village LLC in an amount
not to exceed $14,500,000 to finance the acquisition and rehabilitation of the project formerly
known as Mann Village Apartments, consisting of 336 units at 4010 Mann Village Road (Global
Ministries Fellowship)(District 22)
“Do Pass”
Vote 4-0

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Economic Development Committee of the City-County Council met on Wednesday,
October 17, 2007. Chairman Jackie Nytes called the meeting to order at 5:03 p.m. with the
following members present: Councillors Joanne Sanders, André Carson, and Virginia Cain.
Councillors Lonnell Conley, Marilyn Pfisterer, and Isaac Randolph were absent. Councillors Bob
Cockrum and Robert Lutz were also present.
Rod Morgan, Bingham McHale and the Economic Development Commission, stated members of
the committee have received an application for the Mann Village project, and two Executive
Summaries, one for Mann Village and the other for Fox Club/Lake Side Pointe refinancing
project.
Proposal No. 449, 2007 - a final resolution for Bridgeport Crossing Apartment, LLC in an
amount not to exceed $9,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction and equipping of an
180-unit apartment complex at 2005 Bridgeport Road (Bridgeport Crossing Apartments Project)
(District 13)
Mr. Morgan stated that the committee had induced this project earlier in the year, and stated that
the amount is not to exceed $9 million, not $19 million as reflected by a typo in the proposal
digest which has been corrected in these minutes. Mr. Morgan stated that there have been a
couple changes to the project since it was initially induced. Mr. Morgan stated that a new road
has been proposed to address concerns about access for the fire department, and overall access to
the project as a whole (Exhibit A). Mr. Morgan stated that developers have reconfigured the
property to reduce the density of the project site. Mr. Morgan stated that no members of the
public spoke against the project at a recent Economic Development Commission Meeting. The
Commission voted unanimously to recommend approval of the final resolution.
Chair Nytes stated that she would like for Rod Morgan to point out the location of the project
sites to the Committee, on the map provided. Chair Nytes stated it is very important to show that
the Council and the Economic Development Commission are supporting a wide range of housing
options all across the county.
Councillor Cain inquired if the project consisted of new construction. Mr. Morgan stated that this
is new construction. Councillor Cain stated that this is mixed use site and there are other things
going up around the apartment complex. Mr. Morgan stated that there is a commercial aspect to
the property that has been added. Councillor Cain inquired if a certain amount of the housing had
to be low income. Mr. Morgan stated that restrictions apply on this project since it is to receive a
Low Income Housing Tax Credit. The restrictions on this project are 40% of the units at 60% of
the average median income.
Chair Nytes stated that this proposal had come before the committee earlier in the year for an
inducement resolution. Mr. Morgan stated that inducement allows for the developer to go to the
state for a volume cap, which allows for taxing bonds to be issued against the volume permitted
in Indiana.

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 2
Vice President Sanders stated that there is no property tax commitment to this property. The tax
credits come from the state, which are actually from federal housing. Mr. Morgan stated that the
bonds will not be an obligation of the City of Indianapolis, and there will not be any tax revenues
used to repay the bonds. Mr. Morgan stated that the only payments will be from revenue
generated at the project. Mr. Morgan stated that the tax credit aspect of the project is a separate
matter that will be utilized by the developer, to get additional financing to complete the project.
Vice President Sanders and Mr. Morgan stated that no taxes will be comitted by the use of these
bonds.
Councillor Cain inquired if Councillor Lutz, present in the audience, was in favor of this project,
since it will be in his district. Councillor Lutz stated that when he became Councillor in May, he
had some reservations about the project, and after meeting representatives from the fire
department, school corporation, and the developer, Councillor Lutz stated that he is in favor of
this project.
Chair Nytes stated when the committee heard the proposal the first time, the committee approved
the proposal with some conditions attached, and it appears the developer noted the concerns of
the committee, and has made a much stronger project.
Councillor Lutz stated that property to the east of the new construction would be rehabilitated as
part of the project. The other items (Exhibit A, highlighted), would be new construction.
Chair Nytes emphasized the significance of the investment of residential, warehouse, and office
space in the area. Chair Nytes stated that this suggests that jobs my come to the area, which is
good for everybody.
Councillor Cain stated that even though she will support this project in committee, to support
Councillor Lutz, she may not vote for this on the Council floor, since it is new construction and
60% will be for the lower income bracket. Councillor Cain stated that she would like to see
items, like this proposal to be used to rehabilitate existing structures.
Vice President Sanders moved, seconded by Councillor Carson to send Proposal No. 449, 2007
to the full Council with the recommendation “Do Pass”. The motion carried 4-0.
Proposal No. 450, 2007 - a final resolution for Fox Lake Affordable Housing, Inc. (FARH) in an
amount not to exceed $29,700,000 for a full refunding of Multi-family Revenue Bonds Series
1999A and partial refunding of Multifamily Revenue Bonds Subordinate Series 1999B(Lake
Nora and Fox Club Projects)(Districts 3 & 20)
Mr. Morgan stated that this project in the proposal digest will take place in two Council districts.
The first project will take place in District 3, at 9000 North College Avenue. The second project
will take place in District 20 at 440 South Keystone Avenue. Chair Nytes inquired if both
projects were in the same package. Mr. Morgan stated that both projects have the same owner.
Mr. Morgan stated that this project has been before the committee before, the last time in 2005

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 3
when the IRS opened a random audit on the property. The audit lasted two years and closed the
audit with no findings and no comment. Mr. Morgan stated that this is a final resolution and has
been in front of the Economic Development Commission, no member of the public spoke in
favor or opposition to the proposal. The Commission voted unanimously in support of this
project. Mr. Morgan stated that there will not be any tax revenues used for this project, the only
money used will be revenues raised by the project.
Chair Nytes inquired if this was just a refinancing or if there would be actual construction on the
sites indicated. Mr. Morgan stated that this would only be a refinancing of the property. Chair
Nytes inquired if the money within the proposal would be used to repair any structures, Mr.
Morgan responded that the money is only used to refinance the project.
Mr. Morgan stated that there will be a public hearing on this proposed refinancing on Friday
October 19, 2007. Chair Nytes inquired if the committee was ahead of the Commission, and Mr.
Morgan stated that this proposal falls under state statue, which allows for public testimony any
time before final action is taken.
Chair Nytes stressed the fact that the financing will not involve property taxes, they are strictly
revenue bonds that will be paid by the subsidies and rents.
Vice President Sanders inquired about the IRS tax status of The Foundation for Affordable
Rental Housing, which owns the property in Indianapolis, and others in Kansas City and
Memphis. Vice President Sanders inquired if it was a 501(c)3, Tom Peterson, Ice Miller, stated
that it is classified as a 501(c)3.
Chair Nytes inquired about the occupancy rate of the dwellings. Mr. Morgan stated that the
combined occupancy rate was 91%. Chair Nytes stated that the occupancy rate can reflect the
quality of the management that operates the facilities.
Councillor Cain moved, seconded by Councillor Carson to send Proposal No. 450, 2007 to the
Full Council with the recommendation “Do Pass”. The motion carried 4-0.
Proposal No. 451, 2007 - a final resolution for Pedcor Investments–2006–LXXXVIII in an
amount not to exceed $15,000,000 to finance the acquisition, construction and equipping of a
220-unit apartment complex at West 79th Street and Township Line Road (Forest Ridge
Apartments Project)(District 7)
Mr. Morgan stated that a public hearing has taken place and no member of the public spoke
either for or against the project. Mr. Morgan stated that the bonds issued would not be an
obligation of the City of Indianapolis and that no tax revenues would be utilized to repay the
bonds.
Chair Nytes inquired about the number of units that are to be used for affordable housing, and
what percentage of median income qualifies tenants for the affordable housing. Mr. Morgan
stated that 40% of the units will be for tenants at 60% of the median income.

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 4
Councillor Cain inquired if this project consisted of new construction. Mr. Morgan stated that it
did consist of new construction.
Mr. Morgan stated that there have been no substantial changes in the project since last viewed by
the committee in 2006, as well as an extension to the inducement resolution, which was granted.
Chair Nytes stated that she wanted the Council to explore Councillor Cain’s concerns with new
buildings versus rehabilitation. Chair Nytes stated that it is her perspective that there are parts of
the County that have older projects that could warrant remediation, and that the new construction
is due to the fact that affordable housing is lacking in particular areas of the county. This
provides a need for brand new affordable housing projects. Mr. Morgan stated that a demand
survey was carried out, and a need for affordable housing was found in the projected areas of the
county.
Mr. Tomas Peterson, Ice Miller, spoke to explain why new construction would need to take place
instead of repairs to current tenements. Mr. Peterson stated that a “need study” was conducted in
the area and it was determined that there was a need to build additional housing. Mr. Peterson
stated that there were many projects that took place in the 1960’s that may have been neglected
or have just deteriorated over time, these are the projects that primarily need rehabilitation. Mr.
Peterson stated that there can be a difficulty in determining if an area needs rehabilitation, such
as if jobs are in the area or will stay in the area, as well as population shifts to or from the area.
Mr. Peterson stated that rehabilitation can be very expensive as well as very risky. Chair Nytes
pointed out the fact that this project is in an area with hospitals and retail stores that can provide
many jobs to residents who live in the housing structure. Chair Nytes stated that not everyone
who will be working in the hospitals will be making high wages, so there is a need for affordable
housing. Chair Nytes stated that since public transportation is limited to this area, more housing
that is available in this area will provide a workforce that is more conveniently located to job
opportunities and would be very beneficial to the community.
Mr. Peterson stated that the bonds are revenue bonds and this is a commercial enterprise that will
be paying property taxes. Chair Nytes stated that they will be paying lots of property taxes and
inquired what the amount of property taxes would be. Chair Nytes requested that Mr. Morgan
figure out what the amount of the anticipated property taxes would be for all structures in the
four proposals before the Council meeting on October 29, 2007.
Vice President Sanders moved, seconded by Councillor Carson to send Proposal No. 451, 2007
to the Full Council with the recommendation “Do Pass.” The motion carried 4-0.
Proposal No. 452, 2007 - an inducement resolution for GMF Mann Village LLC in an amount
not to exceed $14,500,000 to finance the acquisition and rehabilitation of the project formerly
known as Mann Village Apartments, consisting of 336 units at 4010 Mann Village Road (Global
Ministries Fellowship)(District 22)
Mr. Morgan stated that the Commission did a site inspection and noted that the property is in
good condition. The developer is a 501(c)3 tax-exempt organization, but has agreed to enter into

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 5
a PILOT, payment in lieu of taxes, agreement so not all property tax money is lost once Global
Ministries Fellowship (GMF) takes procession of the property. Mr. Morgan stated that the units
are in good shape and 30% of the units are occupied by seniors and 70% are occupied by
families. Mr. Morgan stated that the goal of the developer is to make this a senior housing
project. Mr. Morgan stated that the current owner is not able to continue at the level of
affordability agreed to, and must sell the property. Mr. Morgan stated that many of the units are
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accessible. Mr. Morgan stated that a goal of GMF is to
utilize 50% of construction work by Minority Owned Business Enterprises (MBE) and Women
Owned Business Enterprises (WBE). Mr. Morgan stated that the developed property was built in
1990 and has an occupancy rate of 93%. Mr. Morgan stated that there are retail shops in close
proximity to the site.
Councillor Cain inquired if part of the ministry of GMF is to offer jobs and add jobs to the
community, and if this property was connected to a church. Zeff Weiss, Ice Miller, stated the
mission of GMF is to provide affordable housing to seniors, and this proposal continues this
property as an affordable housing site for the elderly, Mr. Weiss stated that otherwise this
property would become a “market-rate” property. He stated the minimum occupancy goal was
40% of tenants at 60% of the median income or lower at this site, but intends to make the site
100% affordable housing.
Mr. Weiss stated that there are no dedicated property taxes that service the bonds, but the entity
is a 501(c)3, and therefore does not pay property taxes. Mr. Weiss stated that GMF will meet
with Mr. Morgan to negotiate a PILOT program, which is a payment in lieu of property taxes.
Mr. Weiss stated that even though GMF does not pay property taxes, their tenants, seniors, will
have a minimal impact on services that are funded by property taxes, such as schools.
Vice President Sanders inquired if the focus of the project has changed since the drafting of the
proposal, since many services listed in the proposal are geared towards family services and not
senior services. Reverend Hamlin, Global Ministries Fellowship, stated that currently the
property is 70% families and GMF will not force out families, but will encourage seniors to
move in over time. Vice President Sanders inquired if the tenants at the facility were under a
one-year lease term, Rev. Hamlin stated that they were.
Chair Nytes inquired if Rev. Hamlin’s corporation was going to own the property or if Tesco
would be the owner of the property. Rev. Hamlin stated that GMF was based in Memphis,
Tennessee. He said the IRS permitted GMF to own and operate low-income housing starting in
2005. GMF Preservation and Affordability Corporation, which is the financial wing of GMF,
will be the sole owner of GMF Mann Village LLC. Rev. Hamlin stated that every property
owned by GMF Preservation and Affordability Corporation must be set up as a subsidiary of
GMF Preservation and Affordability Corporation. Rev. Hamlin stated that Global Ministries
Fund is a faith-based mission agency that participates in many philanthropic outreach programs
around the world. Rev. Hamlin stated that he has been involved in the real estate business for
over fifteen years before being ordained in 1994 as a Baptist minister.

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 6
Chair Nytes inquired who would be in Indianapolis, if the corporation is based in Memphis, TN.
Rev. Hamlin stated that Van Rooy will be the property management agent in Indianapolis. Rev.
Hamlin stated that as the owner of GMF Preservation and Affordability he would be the asset
manager. Chair Nytes inquired as to how often Rev. Hamlin would be in the Indianapolis area.
Rev. Hamlin stated that he is in Indianapolis at least once a month, and said he had intentions of
creating a district office in Indianapolis, if more properties are acquired.
Councillor Cain inquired if GMF staff would be living on the property in Indianapolis. Rev.
Hamlin stated that GMF has a network of over 100 churches throughout the country who want to
volunteer services to run the housing projects in their communities throughout the country. Rev.
Hamlin stated that GMF exists to provide affordable housing to low-income people.
Chair Nytes inquired about the anticipated transition time when the facility will become
completely senior living. Rev. Hamlin stated that three years is the target for the transition, but
stated that it is hard to determine what the actual time period will be.
Chair Nytes inquired about the PILOT that will be negotiated between GMF and the City of
Indianapolis. Mr. Morgan stated that the discussions are in the very early stages, and the city and
GMF have not been able to sit down and discuss the parameters of the PILOT program. Rev.
Hamlin stated GMF can be 100% tax exempt under state statute since 100% of the tenants are
within 80% of the median income, but he is looking for a win-win scenario with the city where
they remain tax exempt, but do pay money as outlined by a PILOT program.
Chair Nytes inquired what the current property taxes are. Mr. Morgan stated that the current
owner pays approximately $246,000. Rev. Hamlin spoke and stated that taxes are roughly
$260,000.
Councillor Cain asked Councillor Cockrum if he had a viewpoint on Proposal No. 452, 2007.
Councillor Cockrum stated that many of his questions and reservations had been addressed by
Mr. Morgan and Rev. Hamlin. Councillor Cockrum inquired about the management experience
of GMF. Rev. Hamlin stated that the GMF staff has over 50 years of combined experience.
Councillor Cockrum stated his concerns with GMF’s commitment to staying in Indianapolis, the
impact of property taxes, as well as public transportation in the area around the housing units.
Councillor Cockrum stated that he had been in contact with the petitioner to discuss his concerns
with the project.
Chair Nytes referred to a map (Exhibit B) and inquired about the area surrounding the housing
project. She stated that there was a nature preserve nearby, as well as a subsidized senior living
complex. Rev. Hamlin stated that the apartment complex is a 202, which receives direct Federal
Housing and Urban Development loans, and contain Section 8 rentals. Chair Nytes inquired
about the possibility to install sidewalks along the length of the development, Rev. Hamlin stated
that would be a good idea.

Economic Development Committee
October 17, 2007
Page 7
Chair Nytes stated that since this proposal will move through the system so quickly, it would be
a good idea for the committee to list their recommendations and concerns. Chair Nytes stated
that the Council is particularly concerned with property taxes, and would like to see the PILOT
agreement negotiated as generously as GMFs financial structure would allow. Chair Nytes stated
that the sooner the complex transitions to a senior living center the smaller the impact on Decatur
Schools.
Councillor Cockrum inquired about the distribution process of the money collected from the
PILOT program. Mr. Morgan stated that the money would be distributed as if it were collected
tax revenue.
Councillor Cain inquired about the length of time of the PILOT program. Rev. Hamlin stated
that the program spans many years and that the bonds cannot be prepaid for fifteen years, and
GMF is here for the long haul to be a partner with the community.
Councillor Carson inquired if there were plans to have a satellite sanctuary on the site. Rev.
Hamlin stated that there were no intentions. Rev. Hamlin stated that there is a community room
on site that will be upgraded to house events for anyone, regardless of religious affiliation.
Chair Nytes asked, if Rev. Hamlin will continue to work with Councillor Cockrum and the city
to address concerns that have been raised by the committee, if the proposal passes out of
committee. Rev. Hamlin stated that he will continue to work to address the concerns of the
committee.
Councillor Cain moved, seconded by Councillors Carson and Sanders to move Proposal No. 452,
2007 to the Full Council with the recommendation “Do Pass”. The motion carried 4-0.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Municipal Corporations
Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 6:01 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Jackie Nytes, Chair
Economic Development Committee
JN/brs



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

RE-ENTRY POLICY STUDY COMMISSION

DATE:

January 17, 2013

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:41 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:21 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Mary Moriarty Adams, Chair
Melissa Benton
Terri Burchell, proxy for Valerie Washington
Rhiannon Edwards
Andrew Fogle
Will Gooden
Dalton Haney, proxy for Mike Lloyd
Shawn Hendricks
Willie Jenkins
Christine Kerl for Vop Osili
Robert Ohlemiller

ABSENT MEMBERS
Joyce Dabner
Angela Smith Jones
Vop Osili
Valerie Washington

AGENDA

Presentations: Wrap Around Services (Case Management)
Community Supervision Transition Practices – Christine Kerl, Marion County Superior
Court Probation Department
Best Practices for Community Based Re-entry Services – Rhiannon Edwards, Executive
Director, Public Advocates in Community Re-entry (PACE)
Dynamics of Mentoring Ex-Offenders – Jeri Warner, Trusted Mentors
Indy’s Rapid Response Team (IRRT) – Willie Jenkins, Re-entry Administrator, Mayor’s
Office

RE-ENTRY POLICY STUDY COMMISSION
The Re-entry Policy Study Commission met on Thursday, January 17, 2013, at PACE,
2855 North Keystone Avenue. Chair Mary Moriarty Adams called the meeting to order
at 5:41 p.m. with the following members present: Melissa Benton; Terri Burchell, proxy
for Valerie Washington; Rhiannon Edwards; Andrew Fogle; Will Gooden; Dalton Haney,
proxy for Mike Lloyd; Willie Jenkins; Shawn Hendricks; Christine Kerl, for Vop Osili; and
Robert Ohlemiller. Absent were Joyce Dabner, Angela Smith Jones, Vop Osili, Jose
Salinas and Valerie Washington.
Chair Moriarty Adams asked the Commission members to introduce themselves.
Chair Moriarty Adams gave a brief recap of the third meeting. She said since there was
a short one-week turnaround, the meeting minutes from January 8, 2013, were still
being finalized, so they will approve those at the next meeting.
Chair Moriarty Adams read the definition of Re-entry and discussions of the re-entry
population, put together by Andy Fogle and Robert Ohlemiller, which is attached as
Exhibit A.
Christine Kerl, Chief Probation Officer, Marion Superior Court Probation Department,
along with Parole Agents, Denise Jackson and Gerald Carter, discussed Probation and
Parole.
Ms. Jackson distributed and discussed the rules and regulations that an ex-offender
must abide by once he or she is released. The rules are attached as Exhibit B. Ms.
Jackson stated that once a person is released from prison, he or she must report to a
parole officer within five days. She said that she stresses to her clients that if they do
not have employment, they should get into a training program or volunteer someplace.
Ms. Jackson said that if an ex-offender, who does not have a driver’s license, cannot be
behind the wheel of a car. She said that she strongly suggests that they try and obtain
one.
Mr. Fogle, Deputy Prosecutor, asked how many parolees are in Marion County. Ms.
Jackson said that she did not have that information but would provide it to the
Commission. Mr. Fogle stated that it is his understanding that a parolee does not have
to be convicted in Marion County court to be placed in Marion County. Ms. Jackson said
that is true, but she strongly suggests that parolees return to the county in which they
were convicted. Mr. Fogle asked if Ms. Jackson could provide the number of parolees
located in Marion County who were not convicted in Marion County. Ms. Jackson
answered in the affirmative. Mr. Fogle stated that, with regards to driver’s licenses, they
are finding that many of those are suspended and he asked what resources Parole is
providing to help those get their record clean and get their license back. Ms. Jackson
said that ex-offenders do not have to get their license; she strongly suggests that they

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 2

do. She said that the community service providers are important because without them,
they cannot do their job. Ms. Jackson said that if the Parole officers know of a program
that will assist paroles in obtaining their licenses or paying fees, they will send them
there. Mr. Fogle said that he has heard a lot of what they cannot do, but he is asking
what services Parole is providing to help the ex-offenders not fail. Mr. Fogle stated that
Parole is one of the organizations that is heavily criticized for making it difficult for an exoffender to succeed.
Mr. Carter stated that, with regards to the driver’s license issue, he would like to know
where to send an ex-offender to pay those fees. He said that he has been in corrections
since 1997, and has not heard of any resources to help regarding licenses. Mr. Carter
said that he has been supervising sex offenders since 2005, and has 25 more rules to
add to the basic rules that Ms. Jackson discussed. He said that there is no housing or
employment for them. Mr. Carter said that a sex offender in Marion County includes:
sexual misconduct with a minor, rape and child molestation. He said that not everyone
that has committed a sex offense has committed a crime against a child, but he or she
is held under the same rules for Parole. Mr. Carter said the re-entry for sex-offenders
needs to be looked at as well.
Mr. Hendricks asked if the Parole agents talk with the Prosecutors to possibly strike a
deal about the fees that an ex-offender might owe. Mr. Carter said that he deals with
that issue as well. He said that he does not understand why the Prosecutor’s Office
keeps letting an offender accrue back balances while incarcerated. Mr. Fogle said that it
is not the Prosecutor’s Office. He said that if a person goes to prison, they have a right
to petition the court to ask for a significant reduction or stop child support while there,
and it is their responsibility to do that. Mr. Fogle said that the Prosecutor’s job is to go
after those persons for support. Mr. Hendricks said he has seen prosecutors cut some
offenders slack with regards to child support payments. Mr. Fogle said that the
Prosecutor can cut slack on what the offender pays, but not what they owe.
Melissa Benton, Ex-offender Liaison, asked if Parole has any fees. Ms. Jackson said
that Parole does not have fees. Mr. Carter said that sex offenders do have them. Ms.
Benton asked if Ms. Jackson could explain how sanctions work. Ms. Jackson said that
she can strongly suggest that her clients not do a lot of things, and if they do not want to
abide, she can do a transmittal to the Parole Board to request that they put special
stipulations on her clients. Ms. Jackson said as for the parole violation, the board will
issue a warrant.
Ben Sandman, Residential Programs/ Re-entry Coordinator, Marion County Community
Corrections (MCCC) reviewed a PowerPoint presentation in detail, which is attached as
Exhibit C. Some key points are:
•

Procedure from Indiana Department of Corrections (DOC)
o Split sentences
o DOC referrals

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 3

•

o Community Transition Program (CTP) referrals
Procedure from Courts to Agency
o Direct court placement
o Technical Rule Violation (TRV) Program
o Waiting List
o Assignment of Case
 Risk Assessment
 Case Plan
o Release

Ms. Kerl continued with the presentation. She stated that probation is the number one
alternative to supervision to prison. Ms. Kerl said that as of right now, there are 8,077
active offenders under an order of supervision. The majority, 56%, has felony
convictions, and the remaining are misdemeanors. Ms. Kerl stated that when their
clients are released from DOC or MCCC, their behavior must be very self-motivated.
They are directed to report to the Parole or Probation office. Ms. Kerl said that when a
client comes in they review the rules that the Judge has imposed and the fees that are
assessed. She said the majority of the fees that are on the probation order are driven by
state statute. Ms. Kerl stated that the client sees a case manager, is given identification
and paper work and watches a video about the probation process. Ms. Kerl said that if
there is a situation where a client does not report in, a dedicated officer is assigned to
oversee out and in dates and research why the client has not shown up. In those cases,
her office will petition the court to revoke probation and a warrant is issued.
Ms. Kerl stated that one of the model processes that probation does is its sex offender
Halloween meeting. She said that it provides an educational service to clients, while at
the same time permitting the officers to know where those offenders are. Ms. Kerl said
that her office is always looking for ways to more effectively handle their clients.
Willie Jenkins, Re-entry Administrator, Mayor's Office, asked what is the process for
communicating with service providers. Ms. Jackson said that her process is literally
knocking on their doors. She said that they are dealing with clients who do not have
money and she is looking for free stuff all of the time.
Mr. Fogle asked if Ms. Kerl could explain the Indiana Risk and Needs Assessment
(IRAS) system. Ms. Kerl stated that IRAS was developed in conjunction with all aspects
of the Criminal Justice System, from the point of pre-trial release decisions to
incarceration to transitional programs to community supervision. She said that IRAS is a
questionnaire and scoring guide that is based upon the client’s current or historical
situation and what areas in that client’s life is going to put him or her at a higher risk of
going out and committing another crime. Ms. Kerl said that there are seven domains,
such as, neighborhood, financial situation, family and criminal history and substance
abuse to identify areas that may or may not need to be focused on.

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 4

Mr. Hendricks asked in reference to probation’s Halloween meeting with the sex
offenders, if that is only for that one day. Ms. Kerl answered in the affirmative, stating
that unless they are excused for medical, work or treatment, those offenders will meet
with probation.
Chair Moriarty Adams asked if a person is paroled has to go back to the county where
he or she was convicted. Mr. Carter said that if an ex-offender has an address in
another county and it is approved, he or can go there. Chair Moriarty Adams asked if a
parolee can go out of state. Mr. Carter answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Fogle asked what the most TRVs are that Mr. Carter sees in reference to sex
offenders. Mr. Carter said that it is mostly not having a place to live, failure to report or
group sessions. Mr. Fogle asked what percentage of offenders Mr. Carter supervises
tends to violate parole rules. Mr. Carter said that it is extremely high.
Rhiannon Edwards, Executive Director, PACE, reviewed a PowerPoint presentation,
which is attached as Exhibit D. Some key points are:
•

•

•

•

•

Assessment
o Utilizing IRAS scores
o Agency-based assessments to determine services needed
o Using career assessments to guide employment training and placement
Case Planning
o Utilize assessment results to determine next steps
o Detailed goals and action steps
o Know available community resources and any exclusion for individuals
with felony convictions
Services
o Program placement based on risk level and barriers
o Determining client’s actual needs versus perceived needs
o Services should be tailored to a specific population
Communication
o Communication with other criminal justice agencies, such as probation
and parole, is important for effective re-entry services.
o Community-based agencies need to maintain relationships with criminal
justice supervising agencies.
o Information sharing increases successful transition.
Things to remember
o Family re-engagement is important.
o Utilizing evidence-based practices like Motivational Interviewing is key to
working with this population.
o One size fits all services are ineffective.
o Addressing mental health and addiction issues must happen before other
services are provided.

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 5

Jeri Warner, Executive Director and Founder, Trusted Mentors, reviewed a PowerPoint
presentation, which is attached as Exhibit E. Some key points are:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Initiated in 2003, as a response to Indianapolis Blueprint to End Homelessness
Incubated as a church program at Immanuel United Church of Christ (UCC)
Became an independent agency in 2008
Currently provides mentors to clients of 17 agencies
Since 2003, more than 80% of mentees have remained housed while in contact
with their mentors
In 2011, Trusted Mentors supported 84 mentoring relationships, 44 in homeless
prevention, 40 in the areas of re-entry
Ex-offenders with mentors are more likely to find jobs, retain the jobs longer and
are less likely to recidivate
Mentoring relationship builds confidence; provides a resource for concrete ideas,
a neutral and safe place, a role model and develops new skills

Mr. Fogle asked what the make-up of the people who are mentors is. Ms. Warner stated
that they train anyone who responds to recruitment efforts. She said that it is important
for ex-offenders to get support from those who have successfully exited re-entry. Ms.
Warner said that it is not a requirement for the mentors because they are asking an
individual not to stay where they are but to move where they want to be. Ms. Warner
said to communicate with someone where the ex-offender wants to be, that person can
help them walk those steps. Mr. Fogle asked if Trusted Mentors has ever had a mentee
become a mentor. Ms. Warner said that they have had a few.
Chair Moriarty Adams asked how many mentors Ms. Warner has. Ms. Warner said
Trusted Menort has more than 50 mentors, and that is with the homeless and re-entry.
Willie Jenkins, Re-entry Administrator, Mayor's Office, reviewed a PowerPoint
presentation, which is attached as Exhibit F. Some key points are:
•

Indy’s Rapid Response Team (IRRT) and Indy’s Community Resource Center
(ICRC)
o Organizations, service providers, support groups and outreach teams
that IRRT can draw from:
 Marion County Re-entry Coalition
 Mayor’s Advisory Council
 Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD)
 PACE
o Transitional Group Services
 Housing, employment, family support, transportation and basic
needs.

Dr. Jenkins stated that the duties of the ICRC staff are to take calls from those in need,
schedule appointments, visit the prisons and have service providers to promote ICRC.

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 6

Public Testimony
Mr. Carter stated that he used to work with Workforce, Inc and had a great relationship
with the people there, but the organization moved to Recycle Force. He said that he has
heard that Recycle Force will take people with felonies, but not sex offenders. Mr.
Carter asked if there is anything that can be done so that Recycle Force will take sex
offenders. Mr. Hendricks answered in the negative, stating that the reason for that is
because Recycle Force was given a grant from the Department of Labor and it was one
of the stipulations that no child molesters can apply. Mr. Carter asked if he could send
his clients who are not child molesters to Recycle Force. Mr. Hendricks answered in the
affirmative.
William Alexander, Beyond the Bridges and ex-offender, stated that before he was
released from prison, he devised a plan because there were some barriers when he
was released. He said that he was fortunate enough to have some income because, as
a retired veteran; he was receiving 50% of his benefits. Mr. Alexander stated that while
he was on parole, he participated with the Homeless Initiative Program (HIP) and parole
officers will accept that because the ex-offender is doing something positive. Mr.
Alexander stated that there are ways that an ex-offender can avoid being sent back to
prison.
Anthony Dicks, ex-offender, stated that during his transition from prison to Liberty Hall,
he had several bumps along the way. He said that he got a nice job while being at
Liberty Hall and was able to go to his church services, and then he was shipped to
Duvall Center and they shut him down to where he could not go to his church services.
Mr. Dicks said that once leaving Duvall, they sent him to house arrest with two bills. He
said that there are multiple things happening to some ex-offenders to try to bring them
down. Mr. Dicks said that there has to be a process or a way to eliminate some of the
fees that ex-offenders have to pay. Mr. Hendricks asked if Mr. Dicks knows of any exoffenders without jobs who went back to selling drugs to pay fees. Mr. Dicks stated that
he knows a lot of them.
Chris Morrison, Director, Duvall Residential Center, stated that when receiving people
into the center, the staff has to verify employment before they can let them out because
of the issue of public safety. He said that if the Center is notified ahead of time, they
make arrangements so that there is no gap in their employment.
Davinci Richardson, Medical Assistant, stated that one of the things he experienced
when he was released in 2007 is that a lot of offenders were used to supplement some
of the City workers, in the city where they were imprisoned. He said that his last three
months at Henryville, he worked with the sanitation department in Charlestown. Mr.
Richardson said that he brought this idea back to the City of Indianapolis, but has never
heard anything back. He said that if this City continues to keep going in the way it is
going, the City will need to build two new prisons in another two years. Mr. Richardson

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 7

said that if the City can build those prisons, but not help ex-offenders, he wonders
where the City’s commitment is.
Ms. Kerl stated that she will provide the Commission with a breakdown of what each fee
is and include the statute that relates to it. She said that a lot of it is legislatively-driven.
Ms. Kerl said that the money has to pay for staff, utilities and alternatives to prison, like
probation. She said that there comes a sense of ownership, especially when a victim
calls her and says that they need this or that, because they cannot feed themselves that
is when it becomes a challenge to the department.
Mr. Hendricks stated that at the last meeting he asked for information on where the fees
are going and it was not asked to accuse anyone of mis-handling funds. He said that
there are people who cannot afford the fees that they are being charged.
Ms. Edwards stated that the Commission should ask for a breakdown of the fees from
MCCC, as well to look at it across the board.
Dalton Haney, Program Director, Community Corrections, Indiana Department of
Correction, stated that the user fees for MCCC go back into their budget to support the
program. Part of the funding comes from grant dollars and the remainder from user
fees. He said that without those fees coming in, the work release and home detention
programs would not be available and the other alternative would be the prison system.
Jeff Juneous, ex-offender, stated that he was recently released from the Duvall Center
and has sat on the board with Mr. Morrison concerning money. He said that he was
penalized for not giving his whole check to Duvall. Mr. Juneous said that the Director of
Duvall knows that ex-offenders who have jobs and are coming into Duvall, their bosses
are calling to have Duvall release their employees to come to work. He said that some
ex-offenders are losing their jobs because Duvall is not being straight. Mr. Juneous said
that some of the work release centers need to be investigated from the top to the
bottom to see what is going on.
Mr. Morrison stated that Duvall has never held anyone in from a job without a valid
reason. He said that if there are specific instances, he could investigate and give
reasons.
Chair Moriarty Adams asked if each Commissioner has any policy initiatives they would
like to see implemented.
Mr. Fogle stated that they should look at a better coordination on how they deal with an
individual who has multiple fiscal requirements.
Mr. Ohlemiller stated that finding ways to support the use of evidence-based practices
would be one policy. He said that the Re-entry Coalition discussed the possibility to
condition monies that the Council controls and issues under its authority for example,

Re-entry Policy Study Commission
January 17, 2013
Page 8

Community Block grants and Drug-Free grants be conditioned upon the grant recipient
demonstrating the level of skill and ability to provide programs within the frame of
evidence-based practices.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:21 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Mary Moriarty Adams, Chair
MMA/lw



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

January 24, 2007

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:01 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:13 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Jackie Nytes, Chair
Virginia Cain
Lonnell Conley
Joanne Sanders
Patrice Abduallah
Marilyn Pfisterer

ABSENT MEMBERS
Isaac Randolph

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 17, 2007 - reappoints Eric D. Jones to the Urban Enterprise Association Board
of Directors
“Postpone”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 18, 2007 - reappoints Carl Drummer to the Ft. Benjamin Harrison Reuse
Authority.
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 51, 2007 –a final resolution for Kite Realty Group in an amount not to exceed
$6,500,000 for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation and renovation of the current Glendale
Shopping Center, located near the southeast corner of Keystone Avenue and 62nd Street (District
3).
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 621, 2006 - approves an appropriation of $330,620 in the 2007 Budget of the
Department of Metropolitan Development (Consolidated County, Transportation General and
Federal Grants Funds) to fund start up and operational costs associated with the Regional
Transportation Authority, which is a joint effort to coordinate regional transportation planning,
funded by a federal transportation planning grant, motor vehicle highway funds, and contributions
from the local government members of the nine-county Metropolitan Planning Organization
“Do Pass as amended”
Vote: 6-0
Presentations:
Jeb A. Conrad, Executive Director, Indianapolis Economic Development, The Indy Partnership
Jim Garrard, Director of Economic Development

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Economic Development Committee of the City-County Council met on Wednesday,
January 24, 2007. Chair Jackie Nytes called the meeting to order at 5:01 p.m. with the following
members present: Patrice Abduallah, Virginia Cain, Lonnell Conley, Marilyn Pfisterer, and
Joanne Sanders. Isaac Randolph was absent.
PROPOSAL NO. 17, 2007 - reappoints Eric D. Jones to the Urban Enterprise Association Board
of Directors.
Chair Nytes asked if Mr. Jones was present. He was not. Chair Nytes stated that the committee
would discuss Proposal 18, 2007 and would come back to Proposal 17, 2007 when Mr. Jones
arrived.
PROPOSAL NO. 18, 2007 - reappoints Carl Drummer to the Ft. Benjamin Harrison Reuse
Authority.
Chair Nytes introduced Mr. Drummer and asked him to update the committee on the Fort
Benjamin Reuse Authority. Mr. Drummer thanked the committee for his reappointment and said
that he had been elected President of the Authority this year. Mr. Drummer stated that the
Authority has made great strides towards building a village center and a PX Commissary for use
by both citizens and the military. Mr. Drummer distributed a newsletter regarding the new
commissary to the committee (Exhibit A). He said that this commissary is the only one of its
kind in the State.
Councillor Cain asked if there were any plans in the works for a library branch. Mr. Drummer
stated that there had not been any talks since his appointment. Before he was appointed there
had been talks with the City of Lawrence to put a branch in the city center but it had been put on
hold, although all would like to see that happen. He said that recently, talks have begun with
National City Bank, YMCA, and other entities about expanding into that city center.
Councillor Abduallah thanked Mr. Drummer for serving and asked what expectations the
Authority has for the area. Mr. Drummer stated that the main focus is the village center. The
PX commissary was a monumental task and took a lot of time and effort to make it happen. U.S.
Representatives Burton and Carson, as well as U.S. Senators Bayh and Lugar were
instrumental in making this happen. General Brooks at Fort Harrison also helped guide the
authority through the process. The authority is hoping for the same momentum for building the
village center.
Councillor Conley stated that he likes to compliment the people who serve on boards. He
added that the work the Authority is doing sounds fantastic. He congratulated Mr. Drummer on
his election to President.
Chair Nytes asked if housing has been added in addition to the commercial redevelopment. Mr.
Drummer stated that most of the housing was redeveloped from existing housing, but the
Authority is mostly involved in commercial redevelopment. There are agreements that have to
be met, but that is the extent of the authority’s involvement. Chair Nytes asked if the
redeveloped housing and commercial properties were on the property tax rolls. Mr. Drummer
answered in the affirmative and added that the properties add to the challenges. The Authority
needs to juggle bringing in non-taxable places like the YMCA and the library with taxable

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 2
commercial properties. Chair Nytes stated that there have been difficulties trying to get bus
service to the City of Lawrence and asked if Mr. Drummer would advocate the bus system in his
position with the Authority. Mr. Drummer stated that has talked to IndyGo Commissioner
Holmes and the City of Lawrence Council President about this issue. He offered to arrange a
site visit to the PX commissary for the Committee. Chair Nytes stated that many of the
Councillors would probably like to go on a visit since they had toured at the beginning of the
Authority’s work.
Councillor Sanders stated that the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) has been discussing
extending IndyGo bus service to Lawrence and has been making contacts and offered to
include Mr. Drummer in those discussions.
Councillor Sanders moved, seconded by Councillors Conley and Abduallah, to send Proposal
No. 18, 2007 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote
of 6-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 51, 2007 –a final resolution for Kite Realty Group in an amount not to exceed
$6,500,000 for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation and renovation of the current Glendale
Shopping Center, located near the southeast corner of Keystone Avenue and 62nd Street (District
3).
Chair Nytes stated that the Committee received their handouts from Rod Morgan, Bond
Counsel, Economic Development Commission (Exhibit B). [Clerk’s Note: Exhibit B is on file in
the Council Office with the original minutes of this meeting.]
Mr. Morgan stated that the documents talk about the relationships, the Glendale anchor project
agreement, and the promises and expectations. It should be noted that there is a strong
commitment to minority and women owned businesses (MBE/WBE) in this project. He added
that this transaction had been heard at the January 17, 2007, Indianapolis Economic
Development Commission (IDEC) meeting. There was a public hearing, although no members
of the public attended. The presentation was conducted by Tom McGowen, Executive Vice
President and COO of Kite Realty Group and Barbara Lawrence, Executive Director of the
Indianapolis Bond Bank. Following many questions from the Commission, it was passed
unanimously.
Mr. McGowen stated here that Glendale Mall (mall) was built in 1958 and was the first, large
scale, suburban, retail center in Indianapolis at the time. Following the trends of the time, the
mall was enclosed in 1968. This is the explanation for the large spread in the center of the mall;
it used to be separate retail establishments. The mall was popular through the 1960’s, 1970’s
and 1980’s, but as retail pushed out to the perimeter of Indianapolis, the site quickly became an
insular location in town. The mall suffered tremendously throughout the 1990’s. The mall was
owned by a Chicago, IL group and they discussed closing the mall altogether. In 1999, Kite
Realty acquired the property. It was thought that if there was a large renovation, the mall could
be viable again, given it’s location on the Keystone Corridor. In 2000, the $40 million renovation
was completed and it included Lowe’s Home Improvement, Kerasotes Theaters, and a threestory redevelopment on the Lazarus location. The renovation was very popular, but in 2002
things turned when The Limited closed all four concept stores in the mall. These were the base
of the mall tenants. Coupled with that loss there were several national bankruptcies that closed
mall establishments, such as Houlihans and Casual Corner. The interior retail portion of the

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 3
mall is relatively small in comparison to other malls. Because other stores left, the remaining
stores began losing money and they left also. Currently, the tenancy is so light, that Kite is
buying out the remaining tenants. This will allow Kite to close the enclosed portion of the mall
by February, 2007. On page four of the handout (Exhibit B) is a map illustrating the enclosed
portion of the mall. The L.S. Ayres store that is currently shown has since become a Macy’s
store. The sales for that store increased last year. Page five of the handout illustrates the
vacancies in the mall.
Mr. McGowen stated that page six of the handout illustrates the redevelopment plan. The local
media has covered this issue extensively since 1999. Much of the speculation has revolved
around the proposed Target. Although it won’t be approved until March, there have been
extensive talks about opening a store at this location. Target used to have a store at 52nd
Street, but closed it. The community would like that store to reopen in the area and Kite is
happy to help bring them back. The Macy’s store will stay. The proposed Target is a130,000
square foot structure that will enclose the existing three story building. The proposed Target will
be built around the three story building, which will enable the mall to keep the library open
during construction. Oasis, a not-for-profit senior citizen group that is funded by Clarian, will be
relocated by Kite, from the basement to the third level near the library. The Target entry will be
on the northwest side of the building. The primary entrance to the library will remain the same
as it is now. Staples will remain where it is. The existing Macys store will be lined with smaller
stores on the north side. Two additional out lots will be developed along Keystone and 62nd
Streets. The retail out lots on the out lots that already exist are doing very well, while the interior
retail has suffered. Kite believes that these changes will bring the shopping area back to its
previous retail levels. It would be easier to let the mall close, but Kite believes in the 62nd and
Keystone business corridor.
Councillor Sanders asked if the entrance to the library would be on the lower level, where it is
currently located. Mr. McGowen answered in the affirmative. Councillor Sanders asked if that
would be the only entrance. Mr. McGowen said that they have been working with the library to
come to an acceptable entrance point. Councillor Sanders asked if there would still be an
escalator at the entrance. Mr. McGowen stated that there will not be an escalator, because it
would impede on Target’s footprint. An elevator will be installed for the library entrance.
Councillor Sanders asked if the loft will be removed. Mr. McGowen stated that the loft will
remain, but there will be walls and vision glass to let in natural light.
Mr. McGowen stated that page seven illustrates an artist’s rendering of how the Target and
library entries will look. Target worked with Kite for over a year to make this work. He said that
it’s commendable that Target was willing to work with Kite in a situation that was not normal for
them. Kite views this as a major reinvestment in 62nd and Keystone. The drawing on page
eight illustrates the configuration of the smaller shops outside of Macys. Macy’s actually
suggested adding these shops, because they believed that it would bring more people to the
location.
Mr. McGowen stated that page nine illustrates the estimates for the project costs. The expense
allocated for site work is extremely high because of the work that needs to be done to keep the
basement. The basement needs to stay in place because all of the service components are
located there and are still being used. From a construction standpoint, this project will employ
approximately 340 construction workers during the course of the redevelopment. Target said

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 4
they will add 150-200 new jobs to the area. Additionally, the relocating of the interior shops and
opening new ones will keep jobs in the area, as opposed to closing the mall entirely.
Barbara Lawrence stated that the City is committed to the Glendale area. In the 1990’s, the city
established a Tax Increment Financing (TIF) district in Glendale which will be used for this
financing. This is financing contingent upon the completion of the project and Kite entering into
and finalizing an agreement with the proposed Target. If that doesn’t happen, the financing will
not happen. Page twelve of the handout (Exhibit B) illustrates the TIF district. Currently, the TIF
district generates about $500,000 annually. About $1.4 million dollars have accumulated for this
district and there are no current bonds outstanding against that amount. As with other TIF
districts, this one has some challenges. Assessed Valuation will be a challenge and it’s a single
payer district.
Councillor Sanders asked if the parcels to the east include the houses. Ms. Lawrence stated
that the only parcel east of Rural that is in the TIF district is a parking lot.
Ms. Lawrence stated that they are seeking approval for financing of $6.5 million. The financing
will likely be a private note or bond issue for a term of up to 20 years that will be repaid with TIF
revenues. For the purpose of this financing, we have estimated the assessed or increment
value to be about $24 million. The revenues will be used for the site work for the proposed
Target. The project was considered by IDEC and received unanimous approval. The Bond
Bank used IDEC because that process allows flexibility with the use of the proceeds. This is
structured similarly to the Simon and Conrad transactions. The project and financing schedule
is illustrated on page fourteen of the handout. The negotiations for the project agreement and
the project labor agreement have already begun. The project is set for MBE/WBE participation
that is consistent with the city ordinance.
Councillor Pfisterer stated that this is an important project and asked if closing the interior stores
would reduce the overall revenue. Mr. McGowen stated that only 5 or 6 will be removed, but
stores that are doing well, such as Lenscrafters, will relocate to out lot stores. Those interior
stores that want to stay will also be relocated to other exterior locations. Councillor Pfisterer
asked if this is just a shift in the retail locations. Mr. McGowen answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if fewer retail locations would lower the viability of the TIF increment.
Ms. Lawrence stated that the Bond Bank has looked at as many scenarios as possible and has
used very conservative numbers. The Bond Bank believes that ending the obsolescence of the
mall and adding additional space will generate more revenue. Mr. McGowen stated that it is
because of those reasons that Kite did not shut down the mall or lose the three story building
housing the library. Councillor Pfisterer asked if the city still be obligated to this deal if the
Target agreement does not happen. Ms. Lawrence answered in the negative. Mr. McGowen
stated that Kite would not ask the city to remain obligated if that were to happen. Councillor
Pfisterer asked if the current bonds have been paid. Ms. Lawrence stated that no bonds have
been reissued and there is no outstanding debt.
Councillor Cain thanked Kite for their commitment to this area and asked what would be the
projected finish date. Mr. McGowen stated that they hoped to start in March and end in a year.
He added that the stores would stay open during construction. Councillor Cain asked if there
would be a library entrance inside Target. Mr. McGowen stated that although it would be neat
to have that entrance, it would be a security and management problem for both entities.

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 5
Additionally, Target has made so many adjustments to make this project work for everyone, it
was too much to ask for a library entrance also.
Councillor Conley stated that the project sounds fantastic and asked what will happen to the
mom and pop stores such as the shoe repair place. Mr. McGowen stated that they will leave,
but they all have the opportunity to relocate to the perimeter shops, but the shoe repair owners
have not decided whether or not to relocate.
Councillor Nytes wanted to encourage the Metropolitan Development staff to talk to the small
shops that don’t want to relocate to the mall, to encourage them to move into the neighborhood
retail areas. Mr. McGowen stated that they would make sure that occurs. Councillor Nytes
stated that they should consider this to be an outplacement function. Mr. McGowen stated that
moving Oasis tied into that idea. Oasis wanted to stay and Kite wanted to make sure that
happened. He added that IUPUI’s satellite facility chose not to stay because they could not get
a space large enough. Kite wants this remain a community spot.
Councillor Sanders asked if they were working with retail lessees to secure new sites. Mr.
McGowen stated they have talked to all of them. Those who choose not to stay will use other
sources, but Kite will help anyone who asks. Councillor Sanders asked if the parcels will be
treated individually or as one big entity. Ms. Lawrence stated that it would be considered one
entity. Councillor Sanders asked if Oasis would be closed during construction. Mr. McGowen
stated that they are working furiously to help them move from one location to the other without
any loss of time.
Councillor Abduallah asked if there was a contingency plan if no agreement is reached with
Target or if they close the store. Mr. McGowen stated that from a credit standpoint, there is no
better retailer than Target. Target conducts extensive research of an area before they enter into
negotiations. However, the configuration for this proposed Target would be a more conducive
configuration for any retailer than the current one.
Councillor Nytes asked if the stores would remain open during construction. Mr. McGowen
answered in the affirmative. Councillor Nytes asked if Kite would be responsible for managing
traffic flow and other issues with construction. Mr. McGowen answered in the affirmative and
added that they have several stages pre-planned, some of which change daily to ease the traffic
burden. Councillor Nytes stated that there are several styles of Target stores and asked what
would be the style for this Target. Mr. McGowen stated that this one will not be the traditional
red brick Target, but a progressive looking Target. The artist rendering on page seven of the
handout (Exhibit B) illustrates this. It will complement the area, have metal clad, fun-looking
entry points and look unique for Target stores. Councillor Nytes asked if this would be a Super
Target. Mr. McGowen answered in the negative and added that the Super Targets have a
much larger foot print. Councillor Nytes stated that the larger super stores aren’t in many of the
Council districts because the lot size is hard to find. Mr. McGowen agreed and added that the
Glendale location was considered by Target precisely because of that reason. Councillor Nytes
stated that the library was concerned about losing their freight elevator and asked if that was
worked out during negotiations. Mr. McGowen answered in the affirmative and added that a
freight elevator would be added to the perimeter and it would be much faster than the existing
elevator. Councillor Nytes stated that the library was concerned about losing amenities, such as
the loft, and asked if that had been worked out in negotiations. Mr. McGowen stated that Kite

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 6
worked with the library and found solutions, such as reduced rent for three years and cancelling
the expenses owed by the library.
Councillor Sanders asked what establishments would move into the unnamed out lot locations.
Mr. McGowen stated that he cannot name anyone yet, but hopefully it will be a popular
breakfast spot. He added that the other location may be a bank or similar type of business.
Councillor Abduallah asked how the constituents felt about this project. Mr. McGowen stated
the neighborhood wanted this very badly. Kite has received a lot of unsolicited input for quite
awhile asking for improvements at Glendale to help the entire Keystone Corridor.
Councillor Nytes stated that Kite has been very responsive to the many concerns about this
project. She thanked Kite for their decision to work with the library and Oasis and added that it
was the right thing to do. She also wanted to commend the Bond Bank on their efforts for this
deal. She added that the City often gets criticized for their economic development deals, but
that this case illustrates why it is right for the City to be involved in these issues. This deal has
been negotiated in the interest of the citizens.
Councillor Conley moved, seconded by Councillor Sanders, to send Proposal No. 51, 2007 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 621, 2006 - approves an appropriation of $330,620 in the 2007 Budget of the
Department of Metropolitan Development (Consolidated County, Transportation General and
Federal Grants Funds) to fund start up and operational costs associated with the Regional
Transportation Authority, which is a joint effort to coordinate regional transportation planning,
funded by a federal transportation planning grant, motor vehicle highway funds, and contributions
from the local government members of the nine-county Metropolitan Planning Organization
Galen Himmelheber, CFO, Department of Metropolitan Development (DMD) and Mike Deering,
Manager, Indianapolis Metropolitan Planning Organization (IMPO) distributed a handout (Exhibit
C) to the committee members.
Mr. Deering stated that the Central Indiana Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) was
created in 2004 by the City County Council of Indianapolis per Indiana Code 36-9-3. The RTA is
charged with demonstrating the importance of transit in Central Indiana, in cooperation with
IndyGo and IMPO. The IMPO has been researching the importance of high tech solutions for
transit in the northeast corridor. RTA is set up to have a sixteen member board. Fifteen seats
have been filled thus far; the remaining seat will be filled by someone representing the four
largest entities outside of Marion County. There have been monthly meetings for the last year.
At these meetings, a budget has been passed although there is currently no other funding
outside of the IMPO. The RTA has been searching for an executive director and administrative
assistant.
Chair Nytes stated that alignment is a term that has been used a lot and asked for its definition.
Mr. Deering stated that the northeast corridor was picked as the first area for rapid transit. The
corridor exists from downtown Indianapolis at IUPUI to south side of downtown through
northeast Marion County to Fishers and beyond. The alignments that were identified for
configuration of a rapid transit system are Keystone, Binford, and fair train corridors. These are
the alignments on which the technology could take place.

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 7
Chair Nytes stated that this is an appropriation of funds to carry out this scenario. Mr.
Himmelheber stated that the budget provides for the two positions, executive director and
assistant in character 1. The Character two amount is for office equipment including computer
supplies. Most of the expenditures in Character three are administrative costs, including
professional and consulting services. Those services will cover costs for outside attorneys and
other needs that cannot be done by the board. It also includes expenses for travel and
conferences for the executive director to do site visits. The Character four amount will pay for
office furniture and a vehicle for the executive director. The Character five amount is for costs
associated with vehicle maintenance and fuel. The total budget is the amount asked for in the
proposal. The board asked the city to identify any existing costs in the budget. Those existing
costs include information technology costs and rent. The budget is funded by federal grants
and contributions from the nine participating counties: Marion, Boone, Hamilton, Hancock,
Hendricks, Johnson, Madison, Morgan, and Shelby.
Councillor Sanders moved, seconded by Councillor Conley, to amend Proposal No. 621, 2006.
Mr. Himmelheber stated that the intention of the amendment to fund the City’s contribution out
of the transportation general fund. When the proposal was submitted it did not reflect that. This
amendment places the funding under the transportation general fund. There is no change to
the budget overall.
The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
Chair Nytes asked for any public testimony. None was offered.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if the federal funding was guaranteed to continue. Mr. Deering stated
that the federal funds would be there until the federal government chose not to fund it anymore.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if the City would be responsible for expenses associated with the
RTA plans and salaries if the federal funds were discontinued or diminished. Mr. Deering stated
that funds have already been committed to the salaries, but that the executive director is
charged with finding other sources of funding. Councillor Pfisterer asked what would happen if
the worst scenario occurred and no other funding was found. Mr. Deering stated that the RTA
would fold. Councillor Pfisterer asked if the RTA would permanently be a part of the IMPO. Mr.
Deering stated that RTA would only be a part of the IMPO, until it could exist on its own.
Hopefully, this will happen within two years.
Jeff Seidenstein, Office of Finance and Management, said that the Marion County share of this
cost is coming from gasoline taxes, not property taxes. Mr. Deering stated that the RTA has
received funding from Madison County. Chair Nytes stated that this is an excellent example of
regionalism.
Councillor Sanders stated that she is a member of the RTA and wanted to reassure Councillor
Pfisterer that the RTA has been diligent in establishing its governance and recognizing the
pitfalls for the past two years. This has been a regional commitment, not only a Marion County
burden. Based on the comments the RTA has received, it seems that this project can’t move
fast enough.

Economic Development Committee
January 24, 2007
Page 8
Councillor Sanders moved, seconded by Councillor Conley, to send Proposal No. 621, 2006 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass as Amended” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of
6-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 17, 2007 - reappoints Eric D. Jones to the Urban Enterprise Association Board
of Directors.
[Committee Chair’s Note: Proposal No. 621, 2006 will need to be readvertised.]
Chair Nytes stated that Mr. Jones was not in attendance.
Councillor Sanders moved, seconded by Councillors Conley and Abduallah, to postpone
Proposal No. 17, 2007 until February 7, 2007. The motion carried by a vote of 6-0.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was adjourned at
7:13 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Jackie Nytes, Chair
JN/cc



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

DATE:

September 30, 2010

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:32 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:50 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Mike Speedy, Chairman
Ben Hunter
Brian Mahern
Dane Mahern
Angela Mansfield
Janice McHenry
Christine Scales
Ginny Cain
Mary Moriarty Adams
AGENDA

PROPOSAL NO. 227, 201 - authorizes intersection controls at Beechwood Avenue and Good
Avenue (District 21)
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by James and Dee Frazell through a permanent easement and two
temporary easements for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by Sylvan Ridge Lakes Homeowners Association through a permanent
easement and temporary construction easement for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by Harbour Club Homeowners Association through a permanent
easement, temporary construction easement, temporary easement for dewatering and a
temporary ingress-egress easement for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2010 - amends Chapter 575 of the Code to add registered rain gardens
as an exemption to environmental public nuisances and corrects clerical errors
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 7-2

PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2010 - authorizes intersection controls in the Knollton Place Subdivision
(District 8)
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2010 - authorizes a weight limit restriction on Asbury, Dawson and
Randolph Streets from Minnesota Street to Lawton Avenue (District 20)
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 264, 2010 - authorizes a multi-way stop at the intersection of Draper and Kelly
Streets (District 20)
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0
PROPOSAL NO. 265, 2010 - authorizes intersection controls in the Chessington Cove
Subdivision (District
―Do Pass‖
Vote: 9-0

PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
The Public Works Committee of the City-County Council met on Thursday, September 30, 2010.
Chairman Mike Speedy called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. with the following members
present: Ben Hunter, Brian Mahern, Dane Mahern, Angela Mansfield, Janice McHenry,
Christine Scales, Ginny Cain and Mary Moriarty Adams.
Chairman Speedy asked the council for consent to hear Proposals Nos. 227,262-265, 2010
together. Consent was given.
PROPOSAL NO. 227, 201 - authorizes intersection controls at Beechwood Avenue and Good
Avenue (District 21)
Councillor Hunter stated that this has been a long time, coming and the neighborhood has been
requesting this for some time. He stated that this is not fully recommended by Department of
Public Works for this intersection; however, the neighborhood really wants this stop sign.
Nathan Sheets, Project Manager, Department of Public Works,(DPW) stated that DPW has
taken a look at the location several times in the past, and to install a multi-way stop from a
volume standpoint, it would not meet requirements. He stated that there are not any stop
controls through the two block long segment, and that there is a slight sight distance problem at
the location. He stated that this would not meet the standard criteria but will not cause any
major traffic problems if this is approved.
Chairman Speedy asked if this was a good candidate for a stop ahead sign. Mr. Sheets stated
that at a location like this, they would install a sign to notify a stop ahead.
John Turner, constituent, stated that their neighborhood has formed a group called ―4-Ways
Rule,‖ and their slogan is ―Get ‗er done.‖ He stated that he has lived in this area for the past
nine years and that it is a bus thoroughfare that they use to make up elapsed time gaps. He
stated that from point A to point B gives the opportunity for vehicles to travel an excessive rate
of speed. He stated that not only is this a wise public safety move, but wise on the taxpayer‘s
spending as well, and it will be an absolute benefit to his neighborhood.
Councillor Hunter asked if there is any way possible to prioritize this he would appreciate it.
PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2010 - authorizes intersection controls in the Knollton Place Subdivision
(District 8)
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2010 - authorizes a weight limit restriction on Asbury, Dawson and
Randolph Streets from Minnesota Street to Lawton Avenue (District 20)
PROPOSAL NO. 264, 2010 - authorizes a multi-way stop at the intersection of Draper and Kelly
Streets (District 20)
PROPOSAL NO. 265, 2010 - authorizes intersection controls in the Chessington Cove
Subdivision (District
Nathan Sheets stated that DPW recommends all the proposals for passage.

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 2

Councillor D. Mahern asked what the complaints are regarding Proposal No. 263, 2010 and
what impacts they may have to the city in the future. Mr. Sheets stated that there is a business
that has a lot of truck traffic. He stated that to encourage trucks to use the streets that are built
for them, they are recommending that the weight limits be installed.
Councillor Cain moved, seconded by Councillor D. Mahern, to send Proposal Nos. 227 and 261265, 2010 to the full Council with a ―Do Pass‖ recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of
9-0.
Chairman Speedy asked the council for consent to hear the Proposal Nos. 258-260, 2010
together. Consent was given.
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by James and Dee Frazell through a permanent easement and two
temporary easements for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by Sylvan Ridge Lakes Homeowners Association through a permanent
easement and temporary construction easement for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2010 - establishes that the Council is interested in making the purchase
of specified land owned by Harbor Club Homeowners Association through a permanent
easement, temporary construction easement, temporary easement for dewatering and a
temporary ingress-egress easement for the Castleton Relief Sewer project
Dennis Papenmeier, Department of Public Works, stated that the ordinance requires them to
seek approval from the Council when there is an easement that costs in excess of $25,000.
Councillor Scales stated that she had a phone call regarding dewatering. She asked in the
Harbor Club situation, what will be done in terms of dewatering. William Grout, Assistant
Administrator, DPW, stated that they will have to dewater in order to put the sewer in the
ground. He stated that they will lower the ground water table temporarily, put the sewer in the
ground and then turn off the dewatering pumps. He stated that there will be an extended
dewatering period, and because there is a potential that they may be drying up some water
wells. As part of the project, they will be extending city water to some of the residents. He
stated that they will be recharging any lakes in the area.
Councillor D. Mahern asked if there will be any fees associated with bringing the water in. Mr.
Grout stated that the city will pay all costs.
Dennis Papenmeier stated that they have had several meetings with the community to inform
and answer many of their questions.
Councillor D. Mahern asked if the temporary easements are only taken for a period of time. Mr.
Grout stated they will expire and be given back to the homeowner.
Chairman Speedy clarified this is an act of eminent domain and they are asking for the local
legislative body to authorize the purchases. Each of these are anticipated to be greater than
$25,000. He asked if they had started an appraisal process and if they have entered into any

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 3

agreements. Mr. Grout stated that they need the Council‘s approval prior to making the offers.
He stated that they have had several meetings with the people in the neighborhood. He stated
that the easements are in Phase II, and are scheduled to make the bid date starting in the
summer of 2011.
Councillor Scales moved, seconded by Councilor McHenry, to send Proposal Nos. 258-260,
2010 to the full Council with a ―Do Pass‖ recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 9-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2010 - amends Chapter 575 of the Code to add registered rain gardens
as an exemption to environmental public nuisances and corrects clerical errors
Karen Haley, Director, Office of Sustainability, stated that they have received several complaints
from people regarding rain gardens, which may have been or may be cited for high weeds and
grass violations. She stated that rain gardens typically use native plants, which are designed to
grow tall. She stated that these proposed changes will exclude rain gardens that are registered
with the City of Indianapolis. Once registered, owners could not be found in violation for that
particular section of their yard. It also excludes wet land areas that are designated by the
United States Wildlife Division or by the Department of Public Works, and it also excludes native
wild life planting areas.
Councillor B. Mahern asked what the underlying reason is as to why there are high weed and
grass violations, and how a rain garden can exist without those associated problems. Emily
Mack, Deputy Director, Office of Code Enforcement, stated that high weeds and grass can be
problematic. It is not only unsightly, but can harbor nuisances, vermin, insects, and it can also
become a public safety concern.
Ms. Haley stated that rain gardens are different because they have a plan of what plants are to
be planted in the area. She stated that they are designed to be drained within 48 hrs. She
stated that when there is a planting plan, that plans how things are designed to grow, in certain
fashions and areas; it is a lot different than just having weeds and grass grow up. She stated
that these plants grow really tall, but they sink their root far down into the soil to absorb the
water, which makes them not as bushy at the bottom.
Councillor D. Mahern asked what outreach programs there are to know where to sign up for this
program. Ms. Haley stated that once this is passed, they will be doing some press releases
letting the public know this program is available.
Councilor Mansfield stated that she was concerned that they deleted the nature habitat (item 4,
page 2), because in her district she had some property that a school did not use and they turned
it into a nature habitat, and some of that will fall underneath this provision. Emily Mack stated
that when this was being drafted, it was a conscious decision to omit the nature habitat, but
clarify the other areas, to supplement it.
Councillor Mansfield moved to ―Amend‖ Proposal No. 261, 2010 to re-insert item 4 as it is.
Councillor D. Mahern seconded the motion.
Ms. Haley stated that it was a legal clean up issue and not anything against nature habitats.

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 4

Chairman Speedy stated that after looking over the ordinance, he can understand why they
deleted it, because they are referencing federal and state law and pulling in more specific
language and definitions. He stated that to him they were protecting more people by deleting it.
Ms. Mack stated that she believes it was Corporation Counsel‘s intent to clarify and reference
those specific state and federal laws and to better define those areas.
Chairman Speedy stated that nature habitat area is an undefined term with a very nebulous
meaning. He stated that they are pulling in other law that is more defining.
Councilor B. Mahern asked if there is a case where these nature habitat areas could apply to be
a rain garden. Ms. Haley stated that she believes that a native wildlife planting area was
inserted to be more specific.
Councillor Hunter stated that he believes that it hinges on the fact that people are moving
toward rain gardens. He stated that because item 4 was so wide open, it left room to call tall
weeds and grass a natural habitat, if fined by the health department. He stated that he would
be cautious with the amendment until getting clarification from Office of Corporation Counsel,
and if not satisfied, he would help with a motion on the Council floor.
Chairman Speedy stated that he is more comfortable leaving the proposal as it is, and if
Councillor Mansfield is not comfortable with the explanation from OCC, they can address it on
the full Council floor.
Councillor Mansfield stated that she still wants to proceed with the amendment.
Councillor Scales stated that she has had both instances in her district, and she cannot imagine
Code Enforcement going after an obvious natural habitat. She stated that she has also had
residents who have really tested the system, and have called their high weeds and grass a
natural habitat, and it has been an unending process litigated with the city.
Ms. Haley stated that they have some training planned with the Department of Code
Enforcement staff to help educate them.
Chairman Speedy entertained the motion to ―Amend‖ Proposal No. 261, 2010 to keep item
number 4 in the existing ordinance. The motion failed by a vote of 4 to 5, with Councillors
Speedy, Cain, Hunter, McHenry and Scales casting the negative votes.
Chairman Speedy asked Ms. Haley to work with Councillor Mansfield on getting her issues
resolved. He stated that this could very well be amended on the Council floor.
Councillor B. Mahern stated that it is unfortunate that the deference was not given to the
Councillor‘s previous work in this area. He stated that it is clear that Councillor Mansfield‘s
concerns were not able to be addressed tonight. He stated that he thinks deference is given to
the fact that the Council did adopt something before and he hopes that in the future that his
colleagues would give deference, not just to fellow Councilors, but to work that prior Councils
have done.

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 5

Chairman Speedy stated that he feels that deference was given to staff, whether legal or
technical, and that it was in no way intended to diminish concerns raised by Councillor
Mansfield, and they do have a pledge this evening to address her concerns.
Councillor Hunter echoed Chairman Speedy‘s comments and assured Councillor Mansfield that
he will get an answer. if he is not comfortable with it, he will support the amendment on the
Council floor.
Councillor D. Mahern stated that he is disappointed that there was not a representative from
OCC in attendance.
Councillor McHenry asked that if the rain garden can be cited if it does not go according to the
registration plan. She asked what the size limit is on a rain garden. Ms. Haley stated that the
registration only applies to the portion of the yard that is a rain garden. She stated that the
registry also includes the responsibilities maintaining the rain garden, and it depends on the size
of the yard.
Chairman Speedy asked if the plan has to be prepared by a licensed professional. Ms. Haley
stated not at this time, but that there are minimal standards.
Fiona Solkowski Becker, constituent, stated that she is a Fountain Square resident and has
been cited on a regular basis because of the native plantings in her yard. She stated that she
works for the Nature Conservancy and helps with the landscaping for that facility. She stated
that in the last five years she has been cited three or four times for high grass and weeds. She
stated that she, on several occasions, has submitted letters requesting to appeal the citations,
with a landscaping plan and photos. She stated that she would really like to see the Code
amended to allow for native wildlife plantings and rain gardens as an alternative to the highly
chemical treated turf lawns.
Councillor Mansfield asked Ms. Becker if she had any concerns with the language that was
being taken out. Ms. Becker stated that she had not seen the full proposal, but that she
understands Councillor Mansfield‘s concerns and feels that there should be a review of the
language.
Councillor Hunter moved, seconded by Councillor Cain, to send Proposal No. 261, 2010 to the
full Council with a ―Do Pass‖ recommendation. The motion carried a vote of 7-2 with Councillors
Mansfield and B. Mahern casting the negative votes.
Councillor Mansfield stated that she would have liked to see it amended, and did not want this
to go to the full Council without review.
Councilor B. Mahern echoed the comments of Councillor Mansfield, and stated that OCC not
being here is the missing piece.
Councillor D. Mahern stated that he does have concerns, but with the commitment of the
sponsor and the Chairman, he is sure that they will work it out, and that they will discuss with
OCC the importance of attendance at committee hearings when proposals are drafted by them.

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 6

BUDGET HEARING
The budget for Department of Public works was presented by David Sherman, Director,
Department of Public Works, and Michael Williams, CFO, Department of Public Works, which
includes the following divisions and key points:
Operations
Sustainable Services
Fleet Services
Finance
Engineering
Policy and Planning
2010 Accomplishments
Established Capital Asset Development Fund
o Vehicle & Equipment Replacement
o Improved solid Waste & Street Maintenance
Renegotiated Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Consent Decree Terms
o Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approval
o $500M Savings
Value Engineering for $200M Savings
Improved Construction Cost Controls (Change Orders)
o 2.3% change orders in 2008; 0.60% in 2009; 1.42% YTD 2010
Alley Repair Program—143 alleys rehabilitated; 15 lane miles
96 Gallon Cart Program—60,000 carts deployed
Solid Waste Improvements; 96-Gallon Cart Program
o Historical Background
 Rapid growth in program
 Lack of structure and operating procedures
 Poor coordination w/Mayors Action Center (MAC)
 Lack of program control and quality of data
 High number of service requests
 High service request cycle times
o Six Sigma Process Review w/MacAllister Machinery
o Established Solid Waste and MAC Teams
96 Gallon art Program Improvements
Measure
1/08 to 1/09
Average
#
of 558/month
service request
Cycle time for new 120 days
carts
Cycle
time
for 142 days
stolen carts
Cycle
time
for 154days
other carts
Process flow step 139
reduction.

2/08-7/09
484/month

9-09-8-10
527/month

1.5 days

1..76 days

1.7 days

1.85

1.4 days

1.29

109

109

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 7

DPW Challenges
Escalating Costs
Declining Revenues
Upgrading Fleet
Aging Infrastructure
Overflowing Sewers
Solid Waste/Recycling
Park Maintenance/Forestry Mgmt
Cost Escalation & Fluctuation
Asphalt Materials
o Street Resurfacing- increase 5% from 2009
Fuel Prices-19% increase from 2009 to 2010 (through August)
o All Agencies
Treated Salt-37% increase from 2007 to 2010; 2.5% increase from 2009
o Snow and Ice Removal
Fuel and asphalt prices continue to fluctuate, remain volatile and be of concern
Challenge: Upgrading Fleet
Snow Trucks-91 Total
o 56 placed in service 2009/10
o 14 units currently on order
o 10 anticipated in 2011
o 88% Replacement
Solid Waste Vehicles
o 20 placed in service 2009/10
o 20 units currently on order
o 14 anticipated in 2011
o 71% Replacement
Aging Infrastructure
o $175 Million to repair all streets, residential and thoroughfares
 $91 Million for thoroughfares
 $84 Million for residential streets
o $63 Million needed annually to keep up with resurfacing needs
 Approximately $22 Million currently spent on resurfacing needs annually
o $3 Million annually spent on curbs, sidewalks and ramps

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 8

Transportation Capital Program
2008
Actual
Streets (lane 215
miles)
Bridges (each) 4
ADA
Ramps 1,008
(each)
Sidewalks
68,335
(linear feet)
Traffic signals 30
(each)
Culverts
8
(each)
Trails
(linear feet)
Bike
12
lanes(lane
miles)

2009
Actual
127

2010 Proposed

2011 proposed

635

469

2
1,040

20
2,110

32
1,197

60,660

215,508

127,425

12

30

19

1

2

15

-

13,100

8,724

12

24

37

Challenge: Sewers and Drainage
Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO)
$1.7 Billion needed to implement federally mandated LTCP
$1.8 Billion needed for non-mandated improvements, including Septic Tank Elimination
Program (STEP) and aging sewer rehabilitation
Massive drainage issue--$300 million to implement stormwater management plan
Mr. Sherman stated that they have created a Program Management to merge the expertise of
the consulting firms along with city staff to try to expedite and get more work done and in a safer
manner. Following is an example.
Program Management
For the Right Place and the Right Time
Super Bowl
Larger Correction Complexes
Airports
Dramatic Program increases
(regardless of size)
Mega Transportation Projects
Revenue Enhancement
Capital Planning/Prioritization
Modeling (Infrastructure modeling)
Project Scheduling
Procurement Strategies
Regulatory Management/Implementation
Engineering/Construction Standards

Mega –Public Works Projects (dams, tunnel
etc)
Mega-Utility Projects (pipelines, fiber optics)
Regulatory Infrastructure programs
(NPDES, CD, CSO)
Design/Construction management
Value Engineering
Right of Way Management
Outreach/Communications
Financial Management
Operations. Maintenance Integration

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 9

Solid Waste
 14.4 million solid waste customer pick-ups per year
 Cost of service is $38.6 Million annually
Source:
10.0 Million SW Fees
28.6 Million Property Taxes
Park Maintenance/ Forestry Management
 Forestry/Urban Canopy
(DPW in 2010)
 Grounds, Facilities, Pools
(DPW in 2011)
 Consolidated Workforce in AFSCME Local #725
 Critical Partnership with IndyParks
Operational Efficiencies
o
o
o

Planned Vs. Reactionary Work
Work Management Documentation
Procurement of Goods/Services/Equipment

Stimulus Funds- Sustainability
Energy Efficiency conservation Block Grant
(see Graph, Department of Public Works Budget, Exhibit A)

Councilor D. Mahern stated that he likes the improvements on the days and cycles of the 96gallon carts, and wonders why the amount of time has increased from February 2008 through
July 2009 and September 2009 to August 2010 because it had been going down significantly.
John Williams, DPW, Solid Waste, stated that their goal was to keep it under three days,
because when they went thru the Six Sigma process, most of the complaints that came in were
because the customer wanted the cart as soon as possible. He stated that they try to keep it
less than two days as best they can, with the goal being three days, because the weekend will
give them two days that they have to contend with. He stated that in all actuality, they should
get the cart out there within a seven day period of time, because that is when the next collection
day is; however, they know the citizens will not want to keep their trash for seven days. He
stated that there will be a little variability as time goes along. Mr. Sherman added that holidays
also add a little bit.
Councillor D. Mahern stated that at one time the roads through the parks were the ―black hole‖
of all roads within City-County government because of the debate of whose responsibility they
were. He stated that he is sure that going forward this will not be a problem. Mr. Sherman
stated that DPW will take full responsibility of the parks roads, and the public will be pleased
with the conditions of them.
Concillor McHenry asked if the schools and churches that do the recycling are entered into the
percentages regarding the private recycling companies. Mr. Sherman stated yes, that they
represent 20%, maybe closer to 30%. He stated that there has not been a plan or a program

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 10

put together, but once they have one, they will come before this committee to talk about
alternatives.
Councillor Moriarty Adams asked if they will be putting up street lights. Mr. Sherman stated that
they will be putting in LED lighting. Mr. Larry Jones, Deputy Director, Transportation, stated that
they are not putting in new street lights at the moment. He stated that the energy bill is now
about $6 million a year, and that is a challenge. He stated that they are replacing the lights on
the circle with LED and they are working to be more efficient.
Councillor Mansfield stated that the 96-gallon containers are great for certain areas of the city;
however, in her district she gets a lot of feedback that they are too hard for the elderly to handle
and too big. She stated that in her district they have a lot of neighborhood covenants that do
not allow them to keep trash outside, except the night before. Mr. Sherman stated that there
was a push for the city to get these carts out, and they are looking at special interest areas
where they may be able to use smaller carts. Mr. John Williams stated that they have made
accommodations for the elderly and handicapped. He stated that he has also talked to home
owner associations that have relaxed some of their covenants as they relate to storing the trash
cans.
Councillor Cain stated that a lot of her neighborhoods do not have the 96-gallon carts and she
would like to know when they may possibly get them. Mr. John Williams stated that in the long
term, they expect to get carts to her neighborhoods also.
Councillor B. Mahern thanked DPW for all the help. He stated that there are communities that
have done recycling by weight, and people have been encouraged to recycle to increase the
weight and reduce the weight on trash. He asked that as they purchase new vehicles, what
consideration was given to retrofit those. Mr. Sherman stated that if they were to do a recycling
program, it would be an outsourced venue.
Councillor B. Mahern asked how the budget within trash collection has been affected by the
property tax caps and if there have been reductions in that or in other areas of DPW. Mr.
Sherman stated that they generate about $9 million based on the actual dollar per fee per
household; and then the remaining, part based on the tax levy, generates the other $38 million.
He stated that so far they have been able to stay within the amount of money coming in, and
operating within that framework.
Michael Williams DPW, CFO presented the 2011 Budget Overview, which included the following
key points:
Proposed DPW city budget: $186,643,934.
o Decrease of $18.79M, or 9.15%, below 2010 projected expense of $205.44M
o Includes contractual and mandatory increases, such as Advanced Wastewater
Treatment (AWT) & Sewer Collection, solid Waste Collection and Disposal, and
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit activities
Proposed DPW overall program: $473,508,478.
o Represents all funding groups:
 Bond proceeds
 Federal aid

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 11



Grant dollars
Other revenue sources

2011 full-time equivalents (FTE) : 714.50
o Net increase of 50.25 FTEs from 2010
2010 versus 2011 Revenues (in millions)
Expenditure Comparison: 2008-2011
Proposed DPW Expenditure Synopsis
Expenditures by Character
2011 Expenditures by Character w/Full Capital
DPW Character 1 Changes: 2010-2011
DPW Character 2 Changes: 2010-2011
DPW Character 3 Changes: 2010-2011
DPW Character 4 Changes: 2010-2011
DPW Character 5 Changes: 2010-2011
The Ballard Rules at work:
Public Safety is Job #1
Broken Window Theory-Clean, Safe Neighborhoods
Local Government Officials should make financial decisions based on the welfares of the
city 10-50 years out.
Long Term Control Plan-Energy Efficiency-Smart Fleet Management
The education level expected of children reflects the priority of its citizens and its
government
Safe Streets-Safe Drinking Water-Sidewalks-Clean Air
Community welfare is a direct result of private companies wanting to call Indianapolis
home
Quality of life-Attract and Retain Businesses
Citizens are proud of their city, but they live in their neighborhoods
DPW serves Indianapolis by listening to its citizens
Councillor B. Mahern stated that with regard to infrastructure, he has heard before that one of
the considerations about where to do repairs is the tort claims and damages to people‘s
vehicles caused by potholes. Mr. Sherman stated that they start where they have had the most
damage and the most complaints of damage. He stated that they look at the physical inspection
of the thoroughfares, many brought to their attention because of complaints. He stated that in
2009, there were approximately 557 claims, which paid out about $23,000, and in 2010, there
were 586 claims that paid out about $28,000 in claims. Mr. Sherman stated that the bottom line

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 12

is, the physical inspection, the amount of time they were last fixed and the amount of traffic that
travels across it. Mr. Larry Jones stated that on street selection, they talked to their operations
division and figured out where they were spending the majority of the money trying to maintain
the roadway, and tried to fix those streets first, so that they can then spend their efforts
throughout the rest of the county.
Councillor B. Mahern stated that he has noticed a lot of streets in downtown Indianapolis have
been resurfaced, and those streets seem to be located within the consolidated TIF (Tax
Increment Financing Districts). He asked what the consideration for the use of those TIF dollars
was, and stated that if they used the TIF dollars to repair the downtown streets, it would free up
capital dollars to do other things in the neighborhoods and make the city better. City Controller,
David Reynolds stated that they have used TIF dollars in the 2009 and 2010 budget, where
TIFs had excess funds; specifically the project being done on Martin Luther King Jr. Street and
projects in the 86th and 96th Street areas. He stated that to the extent that the TIF can support it,
they have been able to use those funds for infrastructure dollars. Councillor B. Mahern stated
that there seem to be some excessive TIF dollars in the downtown areas, and he would like to
know if there is a consideration to maybe assist with other projects. Controller Reynolds stated
that there was consideration; however, they also have to consider the amount of debt that is
being supported by those TIFs. He stated that in the consolidated TIF district, there is over a
half billion dollars worth of debt, so while there may be dollars in excess, there are also financial
reasons that they need to have reserves in place. Councillor B. Mahern stated that he can
appreciate that, and he will continue the conversation at a later time.
Chairman Speedy asked about the $28,000 in claims paid out last year, and if they usually go
toward tires and rims. Mr. Sherman clarified that it was paid out toward tires, rims, and
residential roads, as well as lawsuits.
Chairman Speedy asked what the assumed price for fuel for 2011 was. Controller Reynolds
clarified that they budgeted $2.47 a gallon for 2011. Chairman Speedy asked if this budget is
considered the sewer treatment budget. Mr. Sherman clarified it was all inclusive.
Councillor D. Mahern asked if when taking over the parks maintenance, they kept the same
amount of supervisors. Mr. Sherman answered no, some of them are doing other things on the
capital side.
Councillor D. Mahern asked within parks maintenance, if the people who come over will
continue to do the same thing they were doing or if they will be able to go into different roles.
Mr. Sherman stated that their intention is to initially establish key performance indicators for
them to make sure that every employee knows exactly what they are supposed to do.
Councilor D. Mahern asked if they have looked at the problem of people being off for months at
a time. Mr. Sherman stated that the union contract, as it is established, clearly allows a person
to call in at midnight for the next day. He stated that there are certain things that the
management is meeting on now, particularly during the massive build-up doing snow season.
He stated that they are working to try and get a better return. He stated that because of the
backlog they have on the right-of-ways and forestry, they have a lot of work to get done. He
stated that it is a challenge, but they are working through it and at this time, he is not changing
the union contract. Councillor D. Mahern stated that he just wanted to make sure that they had
the flexibility, and make sure that if they were looking at a new contract, all those things are on
the table.

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 13

Councillor Scales stated that she recalled in past budget years, some of the committee
members had some heartburn due to some fairly substantial expenses for cleaning that DPW
was responsible for, after some major events. She stated that they had suggested using
community service workers for that, and she does not see where they have done that. Mr.
Sherman stated that they use approximately sixty community service people daily. He stated
that they are hiring people from the re-entry program. He stated that the challenge is where to
use them, because they have to make sure that the challenges that that person has does not
endanger the children that may be at the parks or the programs. He stated that they are looking
at how to expand in every way that they can, and they have reduced the amount of temporary
service on the solid waste side.
Councillor Scales asked where those expenses went, and if they have found a way to charge a
fee to big conventions so that they absorb the cost. Mr. Sherman answered no, and stated that
a lot of these activities, like the parade, the race, and the classic, are economic drivers for the
community, and feels that they need to provide those services. He stated that with Black Expo
and the Super Bowl there are some funding sources for them to use. Councillor Scales asked
where those expenses are shown. Mr. Michael Williams clarified that those expenses are their
people, materials and trucks shown as FTE‘s. Councillor Scales asked under city revenues,
what the $736,003 parking meters involves. Mr. Williams explained that it was the coins that go
into the meters.
Councillor Scales stated that on Fall Creek Trails there are some garbage cans, and asked if
she could get garbage cans donated to them, would it be a problem for DPW to pick up refuse
from those three cans also. Mr. Sherman stated that as long as he can be consistent across the
board, there should be no problem, but he will have a deputy take a look at it.
Councillor Moriarty Adams said that a constituent of hers asked what type of water retention
system will be used after they pave the former Market Square Arena lots, and if there has been
an environmental impact study done. Mr. Sherman stated that he does not believe that they
have gotten that far as of yet, and that the CIB will be responsible for that. Mr. Sherman asked
Councillor Moriarty Adams to forward him the constituent‘s information so that he can contact
him regarding the issue.
Pat Andrews, Vice President, Marion County Alliance of Neighborhood Association asked if this
budget includes the revenue from the bonds that are secured by the extra Payment in lieu of
taxes (PILOT) for the wastewater. Mr. Williams stated that it does not, and the overall program
is reflected in that, but the $186 million dollars that they are working on does not include those
bond proceeds. Ms. Andrews clarified that it does not include any anticipated proceeds from
the sale of the Water Company. Ms. Andrews stated that she thought she heard that they were
going to be stockpiling transportation dollars and spending bond proceeds, and would like to
know what bonds they were referring to. Mr. Williams stated that DPW and the Council voted
on PILOT bonds within the last three months, and those are the bond proceeds they will be
using for Rebuild Indy. He stated that they are not a part of this budget process. Chairman
Speedy clarified that the vote was an amendment to the 2010 budget. Ms. Andrews asked if
they had that money in the bank. Mr. Williams stated yes, and that that is what Larry Jones will
be working on for the next couple of years. Mr. Sherman stated that their intention is to try and
use those to rebuild the transportation fund. Ms. Andrews asked how much they are looking to
squirrel away from the transportation dollars. Mr. Williams stated that this budget shows a

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 14

reduction of $6 million dollars in transportation general. Controller Reynolds clarified that it is
about a $7 million reduction in the transportation program for 2011, which will be in the fund
balance in transportation available for future use. He stated that he would anticipate the same
reduction in 2012. Ms. Andrews stated that the bond proceeds from the PILOT are a done deal,
and asked why they are not being appropriated for 2011. Controller Reynolds explained that
when capital dollars are appropriated, they are unlapsing, so they are available until they are
gone. Ms. Andrews asked if the Water Company sells move forward, how they will handle the
money and rearrange the budget, being that they will lose people. Controller Reynolds stated
that they purposely did not include the pending water deal, because it is not a done deal, and
because it would require changes to the DPW budget on the operation and capital side. That
would be done by a separate ordinance brought before the Council. Ms. Andrews asked for a
ballpark percentage of staffing change if the sale goes through. Mr. Sherman stated that it
would be approximately 23-30 people leaving.
Chairman Speedy asked if the proposed 2011 spend on surfacing can be described as being
close to the 2007 levels. Mr. Sherman answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Sherman stated that he feels that they have had a successful run the first three years and
they are projecting that they will continue with the performance management techniques that
they have been using. He stated that he feels they are getting cooperation across the board to
enhance the operational procedures and policies, and they are getting ready for a lot of big
events within the next year. He stated that they are trying to get their parks, major roads and
thoroughfares up to par. He stated that the biggest challenge for 2011 is the continuance of the
Parks merging. The productivity and operations field is up by 30% to 40%, relative to guard
rails and response times. He stated that they have the challenge of the transition taking place
and getting the water and wastewater working on the Citizen‘s side. He stated that they will be
building a stormwater group, because the stormwater on the sanitary side has been merged for
a lot of years, but they see a lot of synergies that they can gain from stormwater and the roads
and grounds.
Councillor Moriarty Adams thanked DPW for the tremendous job that they do.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Public Works Committee of
the City-County Council was adjourned at 7:50 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Mike Speedy, Chair
Public Works Committee
MS/kln

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 15

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 16

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 17

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 18

Member of Public Works Committee
September 30, 2010
Page 19



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS COMMITTEE
DATE:

August 30, 2007

CALLED TO ORDER:

4:34 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

6:00 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Ron Gibson, Chair
Lonnell Conley
Vernon Brown
Sherron Franklin
Scott Keller
Robert Lutz

ABSENT MEMBERS
Isaac Randolph

AGENDA
Review and Analysis
PROPOSAL NO. 343, 2007- reviews, modifies and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation (IndyGo)
“Do Pass as Amended”
Vote 6-0
PROPOSAL NO. 344, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Airport Authority
“Do Pass”
Vote 5-1
PROPOSAL NO. 345, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Capital Improvement Board of Managers
“Do Pass”
Vote 5-1
PROPOSAL NO. 358, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Marion County Public Library
“Postpone to 9/10/2007”
Consent
PROPOSAL NO. 385, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Health and Hospital Corporation
“Do Pass”
Vote 6-0

MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS COMMITTEE
The Municipal Corporations Committee of the City-County Council met on Thursday, August
30, 2007. Chairman Ron Gibson called the meeting to order at 4:34 p.m. with the following
members present: Lonnell Conley, Vernon Brown, Sherron Franklin, Scott Keller, and Robert
Lutz. Isaac Randolph was absent. Also present was Chief Financial Officer for the Council, Bart
Brown.
PROPOSAL NO. 343, 2007- reviews, modifies and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation (IndyGo)
Chair Gibson introduced Gil Holmes, IndyGo CEO, and Wayne Oteham, IndyGo CFO. Chair
Gibson stated that after the August 9, 2007 committee meeting, the IndyGo Board voluntarily
agreed to reduce their property tax levy by $395,000. An amendment stating a reduction of the
tax rate from .0556 to .0537 was given to each member (Attached).
Councillor Lutz asked Mr. Oteham about the changes that were made to the budget. Mr. Oteham
stated that the reduction would come from a reduction in appropriation, a reduction in growth
from 5% to 3.7%, and the elimination of the “Blue Line” down town at the beginning of 2008.
Gil Holmes stated that the “Blue Line” was funded by outside sources through the end of this
year, and it is not generating enough revenue to sustain itself. Councillor Lutz inquired if the
reductions made were reductions in the levy. Mr. Oteham stated there is a reduction in the levy
of $395,000 over the 2007 budget. Councillor Lutz commended IndyGo for reducing their levy
and finding alternate means of funding. Chair Gibson agreed with Councillor Lutz and stated that
IndyGo is sacrificing service in the name of budget cuts.
Bart Brown, CFO, stated that the net assessed valuation will not be known until 2008, after the
property tax reassessments. Mr. Brown stated that the rates in the budgets are estimates and will
change once the reassessments are completed.
Councillor Conley moved, seconded by Councillor Keller to amend Proposal No. 343, 2007 as
written. The motion to amend carried by a vote of 5-1, Councillor Lutz issued the dissenting
vote.
Councillor Keller inquired about the amount of money that IndyGo asked for from property taxes
in their 2007 and 2008 budgets. Mr. Oteham stated that the 2008 budget asks for $395,000 less
than the 2007 budget.
Councillor Conley moved, seconded by Councillor Keller to send Proposal No. 343, 2007 to the
full Council with a “Do Pass as Amended” recommendation. The motion carried 6-0.
Councillor Brown inquired about the events that took place August 24, 2007 that left many riders
stranded, and if the issues had been resolved. Mr. Holmes stated that the issues have been
resolved.

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 2
PROPOSAL NO. 344, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Airport Authority
Chair Gibson inquired if there were any changes made to the airport budget after the August 20,
2007 meeting. John Kish, Executive Director, responded that there were not any changes made,
and the Airport Authority is not seeking any property tax levies. Mr. Kish noted also that the
Airport Authority Board had passed their budget.
Chair Gibson inquired about the total budget for the Airport Authority. Marsha Stone, Finance
Director, stated the airport system fund is $222,434,995, including debt services and operating
expenses. The capital improvement fund totals $335,728,000
Councillor Keller stated that the Airport Authority does not receive revenue from property taxes,
and therefore, the Airport Authority is not asking for an increase in tax levies. Mr. Kish
concurred with Councillor Keller and stated the levy will remain zero into the future.
Chair Gibson inquired about the budget total for 2007. Ms. Stone stated the total was
$185,302,000 for the airport system fund. Chair Gibson inquired about the total of all funds for
the Airport Authority. Ms. Stone stated for 2008 the total was nearly $558,000,000.
Councillor Lutz stated he would like to see the airport become more aggressive in returning
surplus property and real estate marketed and sold so that property can be placed back on the tax
roles to reduce the burden on citizens of Decatur and Wayne Townships.
Pat Andrews, Marion County Alliance of Neighborhood Associations (MCANA), stated citizens
are upset with taxes and it is the responsibility of elected officials to correct those issues. Ms.
Andrews stated the airport brings in jobs, but what are those jobs costing the city. Ms. Andrews
stated that Fed Ex receives many tax advantages to operate and expand service. Ms. Andrews
stated that the airport needs to be examined more closely, and in order for the city to move
forward the airport must be thoroughly examined. Chair Gibson stated that there are not any
property taxes involved in the overall budget for the Airport Authority. Chair Gibson also stated
that the airport is vitally important to the city. Ms. Andrews stated that if the airport were doing
all the good things being stated, then there should be an ability to prove their accomplishments.
Councillor Keller stated that all the information Ms. Andrews is looking for is public and will
take a little bit of digging to find the information, but it is available. Bart Brown stated that the
airport is the only tax exempt public entity that provides its own public safety and fire support.
Councillor Lutz stated again that he would like to see the airport get more aggressive, and they
have already sold $2.5 million worth of property but there are things they can do to sell more.
Councillor Franklin moved, seconded by Councillor Conley to send Proposal No. 344, 2007 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The vote carried 5-1. Councillor Lutz issued
the dissenting vote.

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 3
PROPOSAL NO. 345, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Capital Improvement Board of Managers
Chair Gibson asked Barney Levengood, Capital Improvement Board (CIB) Executive Director,
if any changes had been made to the budget of the CIB since the August 9, 2007 meeting. Mr.
Levengood stated that there had not been any changes to the budget, and the CIB Board had
approved the budget.
Chair Gibson asked Dixie Gough, CIB Controller, the budget total for the CIB for 2008. Ms.
Gough stated the budget is just over $108 million and the budget for 2007 was a little over $105
million. Chair Gibson stated that the CIB does not use any property tax or any income tax. Mr.
Levengood concurred with the Chair’s statement.
Pat Andrews, MCANA, stated that the citizens of Indianapolis are being told that if new
attractions are added, new events will come to Indianapolis and many events will continue to
stay. Ms. Andrews also stated that it is getting more expensive to visit and to live in Indianapolis
and the citizens should know how everything is working at the CIB. Ms. Andrews stated that all
operating costs for the CIB should be transparent and available to the public.
Chair Gibson inquired how much revenue the conventions and the sports teams bring into the
city. Mr. Levengood stated that he did not have the information in front of him, but stated the
amount is many millions of dollars. Councillor Conley stated that many conventions have
outgrown Indianapolis, but those conventions would return once there were larger facilities to
accommodate the larger conventions. Councillor Conley stated that as the city moves forward,
steps are needed to keep good minds in the city, so it may continue to grow. Councillor Conley
stated that information for the CIB is accessible to the public, but maybe steps could be taken to
make that information more accessible. Chair Gibson noted that the Indianapolis Star recently
ran an article touting the revenue the conventions and sports teams bring into the city. Councillor
Keller noted the revenue stream is hundreds of millions of dollars that are brought into the city
by the CIB. CFO Brown noted the CIB offers a detailed annual financial report that lists incomes
and expenditures completed by an independent auditor. Mr. Brown stated the information is
available to the public, per request. Councillor Brown stated that the CIB gains revenue primarily
from user taxes, as well as generating revenue for the city and the state by activities conducted at
CIB facilities. Councillor Keller noted that millions of tax dollars are generated every year from
events and conventions that are held at the CIB facilities. The Indianapolis Visitor’s and
Convention Center makes public the amount of money generated every year by special events to
the public.
Councillor Franklin moved, seconded by Councillor Conley to send Proposal No. 345, 2007 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The vote carried 5-1. Councillor Lutz issued
the dissenting vote.
PROPOSAL NO. 358, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Indianapolis Marion County Public Library

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 4
Chair Gibson introduced Louis Mahern, Library Board Chairman, Becky Dixon, Library CFO,
and Laura Bramble, Interim President/CEO. Chair Gibson gave a recap of the discussion
between the committee and the library administration from the August 9, 2007 meeting, when
Chair Gibson asked for an indication of what else could be cut from the Library budget.
Chair Gibson stated he received a letter from Laura Bramble stating the condition of the library’s
budget and addressed issues. The letter stated that personnel costs have been reduced by 11%,
library supplies have been reduced by 49%, telephone calls have been reduced by 77%, printing
costs have been reduced by $104,000, automated assistance maintenance has been reduced by
$50,000, along with reductions of consulting costs and delivery costs. Chair Gibson stated that
the Library has indicated that they have made all the cuts they can in regards to the overall
budget.
Chair Gibson noted that libraries are essential to the community and add a lot of value to the
community, but the city is in a budget crisis, in terms of property tax bills across the county.
Chair Gibson called for open dialogue from members of the committee and stated that he had
directed Bart Brown to look over the Library’s budget and give the Chair and the committee
some recommendations for cuts. Chair Gibson stated he had an amendment that would reduce
the operations budget by $184,189 and the capital budget by $115,811 for a total of $300,000.
Councillor Franklin inquired what recommendations Bart Brown may have for the committee in
regards to the budget and stated that all individuals must live within a budget and so must local
government. Councillor Franklin also stated that she would like to hear from the Library Board
and why they may not be able to live with this cut to their budget. Bart Brown stated that he
would like to give credit to Becky Dixon and IMCPL for working with him when it came to
discussing sacrifices. Mr. Brown also stated that the Library deserves credit by taking
$4.7million out of their own funds, to pay debt services, to avoid raising the property tax levy.
Bart Brown stated that the $4.7 million coming out of the operating fund for debt service put a
hardship on providing service. The committee is now asking for an additional cut of $300,000
which will allow the Library to still provide service, but any further cuts may reduce service for
their patrons.
Louis Mahern stated that the Library can accomplish these cuts. The $115,811 was set aside for
the purchase of new personal computers (PC), that the library will have to do without for the
time being. Mr. Mahern stated that the cuts up to this point have been unnoticed by the patrons of
the library. Mr. Mahern stated that with the cuts proposed, the public would notice and, there
would be interruptions in service. Mr. Mahern stated that the $184,189 savings would come by
not opening branches on Sundays. Mr. Mahern noted that there are 10 branches within the
system that are open on Sunday, which could be closed for the savings. Chair Gibson stated that
he believes that cut should be made, but he does not want to have to close all libraries on
Sundays to make the cuts feasible. Mr. Mahern stated that this decision is the answer to two
questions: Where can the savings be found and what is the most equitable way to execute the
savings. Mr. Mahern stated that there are neighborhoods now that do not have library service on
Sunday. The Library Board decided not to cut more services to neighborhoods without Sunday
service, but instead to close all branches on Sunday and spread the discomfort over all the

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 5
branches of the system. Mr. Mahern reiterated that over half of the branches were closed on
Sunday currently. Mr. Mahern stated that Sundays are one of the slowest days for the library at
the branches currently open.
Councillor Brown stated that the entire budget for IMCPL is $44 million. Mr. Mahern replied
that the operating budget is actually about $29 million. Councillor Brown asked why that out of a
$29 million budget, the only way to save $184,000 is to close all the branches on Sunday. Mr.
Mahern stated that Councillor Brown’s comments are correct. Mr. Mahern stated that IMCPL
has already implemented substantial cuts over the past three years and that in 2003 IMCPL
absorbed a $3,000,000 cut from the General Assembly, when they took away some taxing
authority from IMCPL. In 2005 the City-County Council mandated that the library place $1.5
million in the operating budget that was marked for debt services. Mr. Mahern stated that the
budget that is before the committee spends nearly $5 million more than it takes in, and the debt
this budget will cause is paid for from the operating fund. The reserves will be depleted by 2010,
and there will be a $3.5 million deficit with no money in reserves. Mr. Mahern stated that if this
problem is not addressed there will be a disaster in the library system. Mr. Mahern stated that the
employees within the IMCPL system are tremendously upset over all the cuts that have taken
place within the past three years.
Councillor Brown inquired what percentage $184,000 makes out of a $29 million budget. CFO
Brown stated that $184,000 represents .6% of the budget. Councillor Brown stated that maybe
the IMCPL could find other means of generating revenue, such as charging fees for those who do
not live within the system for library cards. Ms. Dixon stated that those fees already exist and the
charge is $65. Councillor Brown stated that there must be a way to generate $184,000 without
closing branches on Sundays. Mr. Mahern stated that the IMCPL has tried to find means to raise
such revenue through charging fees for copying and other services. The State Board of Accounts
will allow the Library to charge the cost of the service but will not allow the Library to make a
profit. Councillor Brown inquired about the cost of renting material from libraries. Mr. Mahern
stated that libraries don’t charge fees to rent material. Mr. Mahern stated that the library would
actually lose money if they charged $.05 or $.10 per item since the transaction cost would be
much more than the amount charged. Councillor Brown stated that IMCPL has been very
creative in cost cutting and $184,189 is a small amount of $29 million to be cut.
Chair Gibson inquired that the total cost to run the open branches of the library only costs
$184,189 per year. Ms. Dixon stated that hourly part-time people making minimum wage are
used to staff the branches on Sundays. Chair Gibson inquired what the difference was between
the Sunday workers and those used throughout the week. Ms. Dixon stated that those same
employees are used through the week. Ms. Dixon stated that Sundays are not extra days in the
Library system, it is a normal workday. Ms. Dixon stated that in the past workers were paid
overtime for working on Sunday, this practice ended two years ago in addition to the deletion of
longevity pay, and all post-employment benefits. Ms. Dixon also stated that many employees are
at the top of their pay scales and will not be eligible for pay increases in the future. Executive
members of IMCPL have their salaries frozen for the coming years, and hourly employees will
receive a 1% salary increase. Chair Gibson stated that IMCPL should be commended for their

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 6
cost-cutting efforts under the leadership of Mr. Mahern. Chair Gibson stated the that Central
Library project is an event that no one could forecast and put IMCPL in the negative.
Chair Gibson inquired if any branches of the library were open on Saturday. Mr. Mahern stated
that all branches were open on Saturday. Chair Gibson inquired if branches could alternate
between services on Saturday and Sunday throughout the system. Mr. Mahern noted that the
public has a difficult time now determining which branches are open on Sunday, since twelve
branches are closed on Sunday and ten open, and the hours of operation on Sunday. By adding a
rotating schedule on the weekends, it would only add to that confusion.
Councillor Lutz commended Mr. Mahern for his leadership in the operation of the Library. Mr.
Lutz stated that when he visits the branch near his home, he sees that branch full of people using
the resources IMCPL has to offer and would hate to see any more branches closed on Sunday.
Mr. Lutz stated that the purpose of the library is for the distribution of information, and the
library has done a very good job by reducing their budget to a bare bones budget. Mr. Mahern
stated that the operating budget is 4% less than the operating budget in 2004.
Councillor Keller inquired how the property tax numbers relate in comparison between 2007 and
2008 budgets. Ms. Dixon stated that Proposal No. 258, 2007 kept property tax levy the same for
both years. Ms. Dixon stated that debt service funds were moved from the operating budget so
the citizens of Marion County did not have to pay for construction overruns at the Central
Library location through increased property tax levies. Mr. Mahern noted that the amendment
would result in $300,000 less in property taxes collected. Councillor Keller stated that the
proposed amendment would cut funds for the purchase of personal computers that are needed by
the libraries to provide service to citizens. Councillor Keller stated past cuts have stripped many
benefits from the library staff, which past staff enjoyed. Councillor Keller stated that it seems the
library has done all they can do, and he is not interested in closing more branches on Sunday.
Bart Brown stated that in the interest of full disclosure, the library will be receiving $1.1million
more dollars per year by means of the passage of the County Option Income Tax (COIT) passed
earlier in the year. Mr. Brown stated that even with the removal of the $300,000 from the budget,
the IMCPL will be receiving more money because of the COIT increase. Mr. Brown stated that it
is difficult to remove money from an already strained account, and stated that a decision does not
necessarily need to be made at this time. Mr. Brown pointed out that there is usually under
spending and the library has a fund balance that may allow them to operate up to three months
into 2008, this option may allow the library time to find the $184,189 to operate. Mr. Brown
made the recommendation to pass the amendment and then use the next six months to find the
$184,189.
Councillor Franklin stated that there should be some type of compromise, such as keep all
branches open only one day during the weekend instead of just some branches closed on Sunday
and all branches open on Saturday. Councillor Franklin stated that in her opinion, IndyGo was a
much more important entity than the library since it gets people to and from work. Councillor
Franklin stated that the CIB brings money into Marion County and inquired how much money

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 7
the IMCPL generates for the County. Councillor Franklin stated that the taxpayers of Marion
County should not have to keep funding the overruns of the new Central Library.
Ms. Dixon stated that Mr. Brown is correct is stating the Library has fund balances, but part
those balances are to be used to pay debt service payments that are due January 1, 2009. Ms.
Dixon stated the IMCPL has already budgeted $4.7 million for debt services due in 2008. Ms.
Dixon stated that over $1 million in the fund balance is to be used for health care. When
expenditures are factored in, IMCPL has less than $2 million that can be used in an operating
fund in case of an emergency. Ms. Dixon reiterated the fact that less than 3% of the entire
property tax bill, for Marion County residents, pays to support the library. Ms. Dixon stated that
it will cost $6.7 million to operate the Central Library location annually, as compared to
projections from 2005 of upwards of $10 million per year. Ms. Dixon stated that on top of
operating costs, IMCPL must provide a safe environment for its patrons, and security costs are
going up 31% system wide. Ms. Dixon emphasized that the library is an extension of the
education system within Marion County with such programs as Homework Help and 24/7
reference.
Mr. Mahern stated that suggestions were made by Councillor’s Brown and Franklin not to close
all branches on Sunday. Mr. Mahern stated that the Library would be more than happy to find a
solution to close half the system on Saturday and the other half on Sunday. Councillor Brown
stated there must be a way to cut out the $184,189 from the budget without closing an additional
branch.
Chair Gibson stated that he is very reluctant to close all branches on Sunday. Chair Gibson
recommended that the committee postpone the debate on the library until September 10, 2007 at
4:30p.m. Chair Gibson directed Bart Brown to go to the library and look over the books and
report back to the committee with any findings that Mr. Brown might find. Councillor Franklin
stated that there is no reason to postpone the vote, and an amount less than 1% of the budget
could be voted on immediately. Councillor Conley stated that there is no rush to judgment, and it
may be beneficial to wait until September 10, 2007.
Councillor Brown inquired about the amount of money that is needed to operate the library
system for one day. Councillor Brown stated that he will agree with Councillor Conley and wait
to vote on this issue. Councillor Brown stated that the committee will work with the Library
Board and find a solution to the problem, without closing any more branches on Sunday.
Councillor Brown stated that if this amendment will affect service and branches will have to be
shut down, the committee will not do it. Mr. Mahern stated that cuts are painful, and the issue
before hand is a small problem, but within two years the Council will be confronted with a major
problem. Chair Gibson noted that Mr. Mahern is on Governor Daniels’ commission on local
government reform, and noted his hope for good ideas from the commission to stream-line local
government. Chair Gibson noted that due to the property tax crisis, anything other than essential
service, public safety or health, must be cut.
Chair Gibson stated that if Bart Brown reports back to the committee on September 10, 2007 that
libraries will have to be closed if these cuts are put in place the committee will not cut. Ms.

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 8
Dixon stated that because of actions by Governor Daniels, the Library will not be receiving $3
million in funds from property taxes and $727,000 is for debt services, which is borrowed from
the operating fund. Bart Brown stated that Ms. Dixon’s statement is not accurate and stated that
Ms. Dixon was confusing the committee. Mr. Brown stated that IMCPL will receive the $3
million, but it has not been determined when or how IMCPL will receive the funds.
Councillor Brown inquired about the Chief Executive Officer search for IMCPL, how the
process is structured, what is the timeline for the process, and will a vacancy exist until after the
Governor’s consolidation recommendations are handed down. Mr. Mahern responded that the
Library Board did not want to start a CEO search until the Central Library project was finished.
Mr. Mahern stated that the Central Branch is complete and Interim Central will be closed on
September 5, 2007 and materials will begin to be shipped from Interim to the completed Central
Branch. Mr. Mahern anticipates the Board will begin some sort of search within the next couple
of months. Councillor Brown stated that he would like to be informed of the progress of the
search, and would like the search to be as transparent as possible. Councillor Brown suggested
that input be allowed into the process since people have many different opinions of the library,
and maybe some creative input would be beneficial to IMCPL. Mr. Mahern inquired if
Councillor Brown would like someone to sit in on the interviews. Councillor Brown stated that
he would be complacent if the library would be open with their process, how the process is
structured, and the scope of the search for the CEO. Councillor Brown stated that Chair Gibson
can decide if such steps are necessary as having a Councillor sit in on the process.
Chair Gibson postponed action on Proposal No. 358, 2007 until September 10, 2007. The
Committee granted permission by consent.
PROPOSAL NO. 385, 2007- reviews, modifies, and approves the 2008 operating budget of the
Health and Hospital Corporation
Chair Gibson recognized Dan Sellers, Health and Hospital Corporation CFO. Mr. Sellers noted
that there were no changes to the budget. Mr. Sellers stated that the Board of Trustees passed the
budget with an effective date of August 31, 2007. Chair Gibson stated that the overall budget for
2008 was $750 million, with $90.4 million from property taxes, the same levy as 2007. Chair
Gibson stated that this is an essential service and there will not be any cuts to the Health and
Hospital Budget.
Councillor Lutz commended the administration of the Health and Hospital Corporation (HHC)
for getting costs and revenues under control and getting the Health and Hospital Corporation out
of the red and into the black.
Councillor Franklin commended the Health and Hospital Corporation for their compassion and
hard work.
Pat Andrews, MCANA, stated the Health and Hospital Corporation is an example to every other
agency. Ms. Andrews noted that HHC is very responsive and takes care of less glamorous duties

Municipal Corporations Committee
August 30, 2007
Page 9
such as high weeds and trash removal. Ms. Andrews noted that MCANA has and continues to be
a big supporter of HHC.
Councillor Lutz moved, seconded by Councillor Conley to send Proposal No. 385, 2007 to the
full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The vote carried 6-0.
Mr. Sellers apologized for Matt Gutwein, President and Executive Director, being absent from
the hearing. Mr. Gutwein was at a grand opening of a pharmacy at the Pecar Center. Mr. Sellers
stated that the Pecar Center is a dual center where both Wishard Hospital and Marion County
Health Department have community clinics to provide services.
Councillor Brown stated he would like to meet with Bart Brown and Councillors Lutz and Keller
to find the $184,189 to cut from the IMCPL budget.
Councillor Lutz explained his actions on proposals that were before the committee. Councillor
Lutz stated that government spends too much money. Councillor Lutz stated that some entities
that presented in front of the committee have done a good job of curbing expenditures.
Councillor Lutz stated that individuals who receive services from the Health and Hospital
Corporation and the Library will be the most impacted by cuts in service.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Municipal Corporations
Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 6:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Ron Gibson, Chair
Municipal Corporations Committee
RG/brs



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE

DATE:

August 29, 2013

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:31 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:28 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Vernon Brown, Chair
Zach Adamson
Ginny Cain
Monroe Gray
Pam Hickman
Janice McHenry
William Oliver

ABSENT MEMBERS
Jack Sandlin

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 250, 2013 - approves the issuance of IndyRoads Revenue Bonds in an
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to finance certain street, road, curb, and sidewalk
improvements; and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto
“Do Pass” (failed)
Vote: 2-5
PROPOSAL NO. 251, 2013 - appropriates the proceeds of the IndyRoads Revenue Bonds in an
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to fund the cost of certain street, road, curb and sidewalk
projects and the incidental expenses in connection therewith
“Tabled”
Vote: 5-2
PROPOSAL NO. 252, 2013 - amends the Code to delete the sunset provision for excise surtax
and wheel tax
“Tabled”
Vote: 5-2
PROPOSAL NO. 254, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls at Baltimore Avenue and 32nd
Street (District 9)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 255, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the Castleton Estates
subdivision (District 5)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 256, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the University Heights
Neighborhood (District 23)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 257, 2013 - authorizes a traffic signal at 5550 North Michigan Road (District 8)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0

PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the Harcourt Springs
subdivision (District 2)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2013 - authorizes parking restrictions on East Street and Virginia Avenue
near South Street (District 19)
“Postponed until September 26, 2013
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2013 - authorizes speed limit reductions in the Farhill Woods subdivision
(District 25)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2013 - authorizes speed limit reductions in the Summerfield Place
subdivision (District 6)
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2013 - amends the Code to revise the sections establishing stormwater
user fees to address shortfalls and ongoing operations, provide an equitable stormwater rate
and per unit fee lower than surrounding communities, and provide credits for both residential
and non-residential properties
“Do Pass” (failed)
Vote: 2-5
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2013 - amends the Code to require the director of the department of
public works to publish a detailed annual schedule of all planned public infrastructure projects
“Do Pass”
Vote: 6-0

BUDGET HEARING
2014 Budget Introduction by Controller Dudich
Department of Public Works

Public Works Committee
The Public Works Committee of the City-County Council met on Thursday, August 29, 2013.
Chairman Vernon Brown called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m. with the following members
present: Zach Adamson, Ginny Cain, Monroe Gray, Pam Hickman, Janice McHenry, and
William Oliver. Jack Sandlin was absent.
Chair Brown asked for consent to move agenda items around. Consent was given.
PROPOSAL NO. 259, 2013 - authorizes parking restrictions on East Street and Virginia Avenue
near South Street (District 19)
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Oliver to “Postpone” Proposal No. 259,
2013 until September 26, 2013. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0.
Chair Brown stated that they would hear proposals. Proposal Nos. 254-258, 260 and 261,
2013.
PROPOSAL NO. 254, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls at Baltimore Avenue and 32nd
Street (District 9)
PROPOSAL NO. 255, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the Castleton Estates
subdivision (District 5)
PROPOSAL NO. 256, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the University Heights
Neighborhood (District 23)
PROPOSAL NO. 257, 2013 - authorizes a traffic signal at 5550 North Michigan Road (District 8)
PROPOSAL NO. 258, 2013 - authorizes intersection controls in the Harcourt Springs
subdivision (District 2)
PROPOSAL NO. 260, 2013 - authorizes speed limit reductions in the Farhill Woods subdivision
(District 25)
PROPOSAL NO. 261, 2013 - authorizes speed limit reductions in the Summerfield Place
subdivision (District 6)
Nathan Sheets, Department of Public Works (DPW), stated that all of the proposals are basic
traffic issues and that there is nothing out of the ordinary about any of these proposals.
Councillor Cain asked in reference to Proposal No. 255, 2013. If there would be new stop signs
put up, or if they would be replacing existing ones. Mr. Sheets stated that they had gotten a
complaint regarding the conditions of some stop signs in the area, and DPW went out and did
some repairs and replacements. He stated that it was noted that a number of intersections in
the area had no official intersection controls established, so this particular ordinance will do so.
Councillor Gray stated that he is in support of Proposal No. 257, 2013, but would like to know if
he is ever going to get an arrow at 52nd Street and Michigan Road. Mr. Sheets stated that this is
something that they are looking at, but there is a little bit of infrastructure that needs to be put in

Members of the Public Works Committee
August 29, 2013
Page 2
prior to doing so. Councillor Gray asked if they will be doing anything with the 56th Street and
Kessler Boulevard intersection. Mr. Sheets stated that they are in the process of trying to
determine what they can do to make that intersection safer.
Chair Brown asked what the speed limit change would be for Proposal Nos. 260 and 261, 2013.
Mr. Sheets stated that Proposal 260, 2013 would be going to 20 miles per hour and Proposal
No. 261, 2013 would be going to 25 miles per hour.
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Hickman, to send Proposal Nos. 254-258,
260,261, 2013 to the full Council with “Do Pass” recommendations. The motion carried by a
vote of 7-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 250, 2013 - approves the issuance of IndyRoads Revenue Bonds in an
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to finance certain street, road, curb, and sidewalk
improvements; and approves and authorizes other actions in respect thereto
Lori Miser, Director, DPW, stated that her job is to make sure that they provide quality service to
the City of Indianapolis. She stated that it is her responsibility to make sure they provide the
elected officials the best data possible to make sound decisions for the good of the community.
She stated that together, over the past few years, they have made incredible strides to improve
the community’s infrastructure and tonight she is asking for that continued partnership with
DPW. She stated that they have an opportunity to act on two critical infrastructure initiatives
that, if approved, create or retains 11,500 jobs for the local economy. The first is the
transportation bond and later on the agenda is the adjustment to the stormwater rate, and both
of these address significant infrastructure needs that will enhance the quality of life, continue to
transform the City into one that is connected, safe and vibrant, and help support the common
goals to make Indianapolis a great place to live and work.
Deron Kintner, Bond Bank, stated that the bonds would be repaid with the County License and
Wheel Tax, State Transportation Distributions, Motor Vehicle (Gas Tax) and Local Roads and
Streets taxes. He stated that they will continue to work with their team on evaluating the
appropriate structure for this. He stated that only about $50 million can be spent each year, so
it is important to look at when the right time to borrow the money is.
Chair Brown stated that he mentioned the revenue source that will be used to pay off the bond,
but would like to know what the amount will be. Mr. Kintner stated that he believes the debt
service is approximately $9 million a year, at 3.75x would mean that the revenue is $32-$33
million a year. Chair Brown stated that he was told that they have a revenue source coming in at
$7.8. Mr. Kinter stated that is a new and additional source from the State. Director Miser added
that it adds to their existing revenue sources. Chair Brown stated that if they have $33 million
every year, he does not understand why they are borrowing money. Mr. Kintner stated that this
bond structure has been done before, back in 2003, and there are still bonds outstanding.
Therefore, the $33 million is what is available after that debt service has been paid. Hope
Tribble, CFO, clarified that the total revenue is $57.9 million dollars annually, and the new
amount that goes to DPW is $6.2 million. Chair Brown asked how much of the $57.9 million is
already encumbered to pay off other debt. Director Miser stated that it is about $2.3 million.
Chair Brown stated that they roughly have $55 million in budget to do projects. Director Miser
answered in the affirmative, on the revenue side. Mr. Kintner stated that the actual structure will
be dictated by the bond market. The approval of the $150 million will allow them the flexibility,
when evaluating the market, to come up with the structure that lowers the total interest cost to

Members of the Public Works Committee
August 29, 2013
Page 3
the lowest rate possible. Director Miser stated that the $150 million is the absolute maximum for
which they will ask. She stated that they want to get the $150 million approved so that they can
take advantage of interest rates, if they are out there.
Director Miser read through a PowerPoint presentation (Attached as Exhibit B).
Chair Brown clarified that the infrastructure need was $1.1 billion dollars. Director Miser
answered in the affirmative. Chair Brown asked what the infrastructure need was before the
Mayor sold the water rights to Citizens Gas. Director Miser stated that it was about $1.5 billion.
Chair Brown asked what Director Miser thought the infrastructure need would be in about ten
years; before paying off this bond. Director Miser stated that it will probably be about $750
million. She stated that they can do a lot with this money; part of the attraction is that it can help
them get out of this continuing whole, and as long as they can stay on top of the maintenance, it
puts them in really good shape. Chair Brown asked, if other streets will continue to deteriorate
during that time. Andy Lutz, DPW, stated they absolutely will, but it is their job, as well as the
Councillor’s job, to find alternative funding sources. Chair Brown stated that Mr. Lutz was
absolutely correct, the Councillor’s job is funding.
Following are a few comments from the public:
Mike Penrose, constituent, stated that he lives on Hague Road and is an administrator at
Lawrence North High School. He stated that over the last 20 years, he has seen the dangers
along 82nd Street to Fall Creek along Hague Road. He asked that the committee consider the
connectivity of this area. He stated that it is not very easy, convenient or safe to walk to places
in that area.
Shirley Lime, Constituent, stated that she has been trying to get a copy of the Priority 1 and 2
lists. She stated that she has been trying for over five years to get her street paved.
Eric Strickland and Phil Votal, Westside Community Development Corporation, stated that the
CDC’s in both of their areas, are seeing opportunities, as well as investments, pay off by the
symmetric of the cultural trail. They stated that they were in attendance to advocate for more
investments to further the connections through the near downtown neighborhoods.
David Parcel, Keep Indianapolis Beautiful, stated that KIB and other nonprofits pride themselves
in leveraging a public investment as best as they can.
Joan Cook, Ben Davis area, talked about the infrastructure needs in her area. She stated that
she understands that the money may not be spent in her area, but the fact that the City cares
about putting infrastructure in and working on connectivity is important to her.
Chair Brown stated that Ms. Cook made an important point; a lot of people have projects and
concerns, and still may not get their issues addressed, even with this bond. He stated that they
have already spent $.5 billion when the Mayor sold the water rights, and still have not
addressed everyone’s concern. Chair Brown stated that this $150 million is part of an overall
$350 million project. He asked if they had $200 million stashed somewhere. Director Miser
affirmed and stated that is part of their ongoing funding over three years.
Councillor Hickman asked if the $150 million is a new loan that the citizens of Marion County will
have to pay. Director Miser stated that it will be paid back with the existing transportation

Members of the Public Works Committee
August 29, 2013
Page 4
funding that they have. Counicllor Hickman asked if they did not have this bond, how much
money they will have. Director Miser answered $200 million over three years. Councillor
Hickman stated that she sat through a meeting where they just cut the Election Board’s budget
to a point where Marion County Clerk Beth White does not feel that she can do an effective
election. She stated that they were told by Counicllor Sandlin that she needed to learn to live
within their means. She stated that she was confused on why they would tell one entity to live
within their means, and take a bond for another entity. Mr. Lutz stated that they are not raising
taxes; they are living within their means. Director Miser stated that these are dedicated
transportation dollars that they will be using to pay it back. Councillor Hickman stated that
instead of paying as they go, they are going to take out a loan.
Councillor Cain stated that they are going to use the funds to leverage a greater amount to get
more done in three years. She stated that it is a wise investment and that she is very excited
about it.
Chair Brown stated, that for clarification, DPW has $7 million coming in that they can spend in
over 30 years; which will be $210 million or they can take the $7 million and borrow $150 million
and pay it back in three years.
Councillor Adamson clarified that even if they get the bond, not all the projects on the list will get
done. Director Miser stated that there are extra projects on the list, but that is the list from which
will draw projects.
Counicllor McHenry stated that being able to use this money in three years versus using a little
here and a little there makes sense.
Councillor Cain moved, seconded by Councillor McHenry, to send Proposal No. 251, 2013 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion failed by a vote of 2-5, with
Councillors Adamson, Brown, Gray, Hickman and Oliver casting the negative votes.
PROPOSAL NO. 251, 2013 - appropriates the proceeds of the IndyRoads Revenue Bonds in an
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to fund the cost of certain street, road, curb and sidewalk
projects and the incidental expenses in connection therewith
Councillor Adamson moved, seconded by Councillor Oliver, to “Table” Proposal No. 251, 2013.
The motion carried by a vote of 5-2, with Counicillors Cain and McHenry casting the negative
votes.
PROPOSAL NO. 252, 2013 - amends the Code to delete the sunset provision for excise surtax
and wheel tax
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Gray, to “Table” Proposal No. 252, 2013. The
motion carried by a vote of 5-2, with Counicillors Cain and McHenry casting the negative votes.
PROPOSAL NO. 262, 2013 - amends the Code to revise the sections establishing stormwater
user fees to address shortfalls and ongoing operations, provide an equitable stormwater rate
and per unit fee lower than surrounding communities, and provide credits for both residential
and non-residential properties

Members of the Public Works Committee
August 29, 2013
Page 5
Director Miser and Mike Massonne, DPW, provided a brief presentation (Attached as Exhibit C).
Following are a few key points:
Director Miser stated that without this rate adjustment, they will only have $2 million by 2016 to
spend on drainage and flooding problems, which will pretty much bring their capital program to a
standstill. Therefore they will only be allowed to address the most pressing maintenance needs:







About 20% of residential users will pay less than they do today.
Creates an equitable and fair storm water rate structure
Will complete $320 million in much needed storm water system improvements and
create a sustainable operations and maintenance program
Keeps the monthly storm water rate lower than surrounding communities
Provides credit opportunities for all properties and encourages the use of sustainable
infrastructure
Improves the City and lives of the residents and owners

Chair Brown asked if this was initially Dave Sherman’s ideal. Director Miser answered in the
affirmative. She stated that in 2002 the rate was $1.25, but recommended to be $2.95; it was
raised to $2.25 in 2006 and has not been raised since. Chair Brown clarified that now they need
it at $2.95, Director Miser answered in the affirmative. Chair Brown asked, when the Mayor
Greg Ballar sold the water company, if he talked about selling these utilities also. Director Miser
answered in the affirmative; and stated that they were not willing to pay what they were worth,
so they took the option off of the table. Chair Brown asked if they raise the rates and fix it, they
can now sell this utility. Director Miser stated that that is not the intent, because this is a pretty
important piece of infrastructure for them to keep managing. Chair Brown stated that the Mayor
was willing to sell it a few years ago, and he fears that they are fixing it to sell it.
Counicllor Hickman asked if RebuildIndy money could have been used for this project. Director
Miser stated that she does not believe that stormwater was included in the RebuildIndy
ordinance, but that she is not sure.
Mark Fisher, Indy Chamber, stated that he came in support of the Stormwater Proposal. He
stated that he feels that DPW has worked very hard to create a fair and equitable way of
assessing these fees. He stated that he feels that this is a benefit to every resident and creates
an opportunity for increased investment, both commercially and residentially in Indianapolis.
Pat Andrews, Citizen, stated that calling this a user fee is to pretend that everyone can take
advantage of this, but there are many properties where the City does not own the drainage
ditch, the property owner does. Therefore, the stormwater fee cannot help some of the users.
She stated that by putting so much of the revenue into bond payments, instead of doing pay as
you go, they could be more than halfway through that need. She stated that they are planning
to bond out 60% of the new money they get, so they could be here in another couple of years,
because all the money got captioned into bonds.
Shirley Lyons, Citizen, asked if this is approved, when DPW plans on estimating and notifying
the residents of how much they are going to have to pay. She stated that many of them are on
a fixed income and will need to be notified in advance.
Counicllor McHenry stated that there is a fixed rate going in on businesses. She asked if a fixed
rate at the same percent, which would be $10 per household will, bring them more in line with

Members of the Public Works Committee
August 29, 2013
Page 6
what they really need. Mr. Massonne stated that, right now, they have a flat rate for residential
and a proportional rate for non-residential. He stated that they have looked at a rate structure
that they call fair, because it adjusts the payments across both areas. He stated that to get to
the $320 million that they need for the 380 problem areas, they would need to look at a rate of
about $3.30 flat for residential and an increase on the current Estimated Residential Unit (ERU)
from $2.25 to $3.30 which would be a 47% increase on the residential side. Councillor McHenry
asked why they could not adjust the rates where no one would pay lower that $2.25. Director
Miser stated that they would have to go back and run the rate model, to see the impact.
Chair Brown stated that Ms. Andrews and Counicillor McHenry had some great and different
ideas to adjust the rate. He asked if this was something that had to be done today, or
immediately addressed. Director Miser stated that they could come back at a later date with
further analysis.
Richard Ellis, resident, stated that the longer this goes, the delta between what is needed to pay
for these things and what is currently being collected continues to get wider and wider. He
stated that he would implore this motion move forward to the full Council.
Councillor Cain moved, seconded by Councillor Gray, to send Proposal No. 262, 2013 to the full
Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion failed by a vote of 2-5, with Councillors
Adamson, Brown, Gray, Hickman and Oliver casting the negative votes.
PROPOSAL NO. 263, 2013 - amends the Code to require the director of the department of
public works to publish a detailed annual schedule of all planned public infrastructure projects
(Clerk’s Note: Counicllor Ginny Cain left the room)
Chair Brown asked Director Miser if she was ok with publicizing their annual schedule on the
website. Director Miser stated that she is fine with doing so.
Councillor Gray moved, seconded by Councillor Oliver, to send Proposal No. 263, 2013 to the
full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried a vote of 6-0.
BUDGET HEARING
2014 Budget Introduction by Controller Dudich
Department of Public Works
The budget presentation for the Department of Public Works will be heard on Monday
September 16, 2013 at 5:30 pm in room 260.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Public Works Committee of
the City-County Council was adjourned at 7:28 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Vernon Brown, Chair
Public Works Committee
VA/kln



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

December 13, 2006

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:04 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:13 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Jackie Nytes, Chair
Virginia Cain
Joanne Sanders
Patrice Abduallah
Marilyn Pfisterer

ABSENT MEMBERS
Lonnell Conley
Isaac Randolph

AGENDA
Nikki Longworth, Indianapolis City Market, Executive Director – Remodeling of City
Market.
Super 70
Paul Whitmore, Hetrick Communications, Communications for INDOT – Impact on
local businesses.
Larry Jones, Transportation Administrator, Department of Public Works – Traffic
impact on local roads.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Economic Development Committee of the City-County Council met on Wednesday,
December 13, 2006. Chair Jackie Nytes called the meeting to order at 5:04 p.m. with the
following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Virginia Cain, Marilyn Pfisterer, and Joanne
Sanders. Isaac Randolph and Lonnell Conley were absent.
Indianapolis City Market Update
Nikki Longworth, Indianapolis City Market Executive Director and Lynn Molzan, Member of
the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Building Committee, distributed a handout
[Exhibit A] detailing the remodeling project. [Clerk’s Note: Exhibit A is on file in the
Council Office with the original minutes of this meeting.] Ms. Longworth stated that she
appreciated the opportunity to present the information regarding the remodeling of City
Market and that she appreciated the Council for appointing seven great board members.
In 2002, the Council approved funds from the Landmark Preservation Fund for needed
capital improvements to the City Market. At that time, a five-year strategic plan was
developed for an overall renewal of the City Market. The goals that were established
included developing a business mix in consumer experience that would return the City
Market to a profitable, full-time, food-based destination and public marketplace that
would serve the needs of area residents, downtown workforce, and Indianapolis visitors.
Another goal was to upgrade the City Market facilities for efficient business operations,
best use of space, and enhanced customer experience. Before funds were spent on this
project, the board wanted to make certain the improvements were consistent with the
larger plan for renewal, were conducted with the least impact to existing tenants, and
had sufficient funding for the range of improvements for renewal. Over the past two
years, $200,000 of public and private grants was spent on research and planning for the
renewal project.
One year ago the architectural and engineering work began, and the bid documents will
be available to the public on December 14, 2006. The Department of Parks will be
managing the project through one of their construction managers, and they will be using
the same bidding process for the work as the City of Indianapolis.
After Christmas, food tenants will be relocated from the historic City Market to temporary
kitchen facilities in the wings of the market. Those businesses will be able to re-open in
the temporary locations January 2, 2007. It is anticipated that businesses will only be
closed for one day during this process. This process is similar to the very successful one
used in the 1970’s when the historic market house was renovated. The goal is to re-open
a renovated historic market house on May 1, 2007 with our existing prepared food tenants
and with new tenants that will offer fresh food and produce.
Mr. Molzan stated that there was a discussion about renovating the market in phases,
but it was determined that it would be better to do the project all at once and very
quickly. The renovation will include new lighting, flooring, paint, plumbing, and energy
efficient HVAC systems, along with SBC wireless internet access, ventilation for cooking
areas, and new design standards for merchandising. The new layout will place fresh
produce in the center and prepared food on the perimeter.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 2
Councillor Abduallah asked if Phase One is just one phase of the total operation or are
there multiple phases in this project. Ms. Longworth stated that the first phase is the
phase that renovates and repopulates the historic market with a mix of sixty percent
fresh food businesses and forty percent prepared food businesses. Food is considered
to be the core business and the market wants to get this done correctly before moving
into additional renewal phases. Councillor Abduallah stated that restoring the ambience
of the old market with the old style fresh produce stands for which the market used to be
known and combining it with the new style of prepared food for which the market is
currently known, would favorably impact the community. Ms. Longworth stated that
fresh food would be available for the public and that they are currently working with a
group of farmers who have developed one of the first producer-owned grocery
cooperatives in the state. These stands will be in addition to the stands that provide
cheeses, baked goods, confections, bulk products, meats, and seafood.
Councillor Pfisterer stated that the changes in the handout look exciting and would be a
nice addition to downtown Indianapolis. She asked if the building is structurally sound.
Ms. Longworth and Mr. Molzan answered in the affirmative. Councillor Pfisterer stated
that in the conceptual drawing it appears that the ceiling panels will be replaced. Ms.
Longworth stated that the panels will be painted. Councillor Pfisterer asked if it would
obscure the natural light. Ms. Longworth stated that it would enhance the natural light
coming in. The lighting strategy uses up-lighting and reflective lighting to light the upper
cavity of the market, but on dreary days it is apparent that the market currently does not
have enough lighting. On the lower level, there will be a grid system with track type
lighting to help on dreary days and to enhance merchandise. Councillor Pfisterer stated
that there is a general focus on healthier lifestyles, and the addition of fresh food in this
area will be very welcome downtown. Ms. Longworth stated that a demonstration
kitchen has been added, with donated appliances from Clark’s Appliances. It is planned
as a place for food demonstrations, cooking classes, nutrition counseling, and other food
related programs. Councillor Pfisterer asked if the classes would be in conjunction with
Ivy Tech Culinary School. Ms. Longworth stated that the classes are not specifically in
conjunction with any school, but they would like to include chefs from various
backgrounds who use various techniques to help educate our community on healthy
cooking. Councillor Pfisterer asked if Ivy Tech would be involved. Ms. Longworth stated
that all options are being explored.
Councillor Sanders asked what the average length of a lease is for a vendor. Ms.
Longworth stated that the range is three to five years with options that can be anywhere
from two or three additional five year options to renew. There are leases as short as one
day. The longest lease is through 2018. Councillor Sanders stated that on the list of
current tenants, some vendors, such as Grecian Gardens, are not on the list, but are on
the map. Ms. Longworth stated that that was an error. Councillor Sanders asked if all
the current vendors would be moved to the wings and only be closed for one day. Ms.
Longworth stated that the move is planned for close of business Friday, December 29,
2006 and finish over the weekend. Councillor Sanders wanted clarification that the
market would be open January 2, 2007 and the vendors would not lose any business in
the move. Ms. Longworth answered in the affirmative. Councillor Sanders asked if the
electrical work would be brought up to code in the renovation. Mr. Molzan answered in
the affirmative and added that there would be a new panel on the main floor and new
electrical runs put in where needed. Councillor Sanders asked if there were contingency

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 3
funds in the budget. Ms. Longworth answered in the affirmative. Councillor Sanders
asked if any of the current vendors were going to have the costs of the renovation
passed on to them. Ms. Longworth stated that some of the vendors will carry the costs
associated with their stand build outs; however that was part of the latest lease
agreement. This has been in planning this for several years and some tenants who had
signed leases prior to these plans will not be charged for stand build outs. Councillor
Sanders asked if there would be an adjustment in the rates when leases come up for
renewal. Ms. Longworth stated that changes of that type would be unlikely. She added
that bids for the renovation would be coming in Thursday, December 14, 2006 and
hopefully the estimates will match the bids.
Councillor Abduallah asked if there would be specialized food for various dietary needs.
Ms. Longworth stated that they are looking to diversify prepared food. One possible
vendor would like to offer vegetarian, organic, and vegan food. They are also looking to
add food that is diverse in ethnicity. Councillor Abduallah asked if they have explored
opportunities for more participation from minority owned vendors. Ms. Longworth stated
that the market has historically been open to minority owned business. Any potential
tenant is required to have a business plan and work with an existing organization, such
as the small business center. Councillor Abduallah asked if minority owned building
trades businesses are also being included in the renovation process. Mr. Molzan
answered in the affirmative and stated that it is part of the Department of Parks process.
Ms. Longworth added that ADA compliant restrooms and other upgrades are included in
the renovation process.
Councillor Sanders stated that she would like to see the market be successful and asked
if there will be a marketing component geared toward new, downtown, residential
projects. Ms. Longworth stated that $200,000 has been earmarked toward marketing
the market. Councillor Sanders asked when the marketing campaign will start. Ms.
Longworth stated that firms are currently being interviewed and the campaign will be
launched midway through the renovation process. Councillor Sanders asked if the hours
of operation will change. Ms. Longworth answered in the affirmative. She stated that
research showed that in order for retail to be successful, everyone needs to maintain the
same hours of operation. The market will be open weekdays until 6:00 p.m. and
Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. If there is a demand, the market may stay open
later on some weeknights. Councillor Sanders asked if the new hours of operation have
been written into the vendors lease. Ms. Longworth answered in the affirmative.
Chair Nytes asked if there were other Board Members present. Ms. Longworth stated
that Bill Gray, Susan Powers, and Amy Merrick were present. Chair Nytes asked how
the Board is working with vendors, especially long time vendors, to help them cope with
the changes. Ms. Longworth stated that they are working hard to mitigate the downside
of these changes. For example, during the relocation process, rent has been reduced
by half. To help overcome any loss of business during these changes, an ‘extreme
market makeover’ project has been implemented. Flyers have been distributed to
vendors to pass out to their existing customers, posters will be hung, the information is
on the website, outdoor banners will be hung, and the local media has been covering the
upcoming changes. There are monthly meetings with the tenants and sources of
financial support have been identified for the tenants during the build out. Chair Nytes
asked for clarification about financial support. Ms. Longworth stated that some tenants

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 4
will still need to pay for improvements to their stands. Through Bill Gray and the Riley
Area Development Center, a loan pool and matching grants sources have been
identified to help. It is estimated that the tenants will only need anywhere from a few
hundred dollars to five thousand dollars to finish the improvements.
Councillor Sanders asked if there will be a way for people to access both wings of the
building. Mr. Molzan stated that there will be a covered walkway outside of the building.
Councillor Sanders wanted clarification that there would not be access to the wings
through the main hall. Ms. Longworth stated that it would not be safe for people to pass
through. Councillor Sanders asked if there would be maps to indicate where the
vendors are located. Ms. Longworth stated that there will be maps, volunteer
navigators, and the escalators will be operational.
Chair Nytes stated that the update is appreciated.
Super 70
Chair Nytes stated that the Super 70 Project is an upgrade of Interstate 70 from the north
split in downtown to the east side.
John Dillon, City of Indianapolis Chief Deputy Mayor, distributed a map [Exhibit B] that
highlights the Super 70 corridor. . [Clerk’s Note: Exhibit B is on file in the Council Office
with the original minutes of this meeting.] The project affects Post Road, College Avenue,
38th Street, Binford Boulevard, and Washington Street. There are approximately 130,000
residents in the corridor. The city is working with the Indiana Department of
Transportation (INDOT) and as details of the project have started to roll out, the city is
becoming concerned about what the effects will be on businesses and residents in the
corridor. 21st Street, 10th Street, and 16th Street areas are very narrow and the capacity of
these roads is already maxed out. The city is concerned that this project will cause
complete gridlock and that businesses will suffer. The city is hopeful that some of the
potential problems can be worked out. If the plan remains the same, the exit closures will
affect Community Hospital and General Hotels. It will affect how these side streets
operate. The city will continue to raise the red flag and continue to work on these issues.
Paul Whitmore, Hetrick Communications, Communications for INDOT, introduced Andy
Dietrick, INDOT Communications Director and distributed a handout [Exhibit C] detailing
the project presentation. [Clerk’s Note: Exhibit C is on file in the Council Office with the
original minutes of this meeting.] Mr. Whitmore stated that it would be a ten month
project that begins in February.
Mr. Dietrick stated that there has been a good working relationship between the city and
the state. The project is a safety issue for the 180,000 vehicles that use I-70 everyday.
The road and bridge decks have deteriorated beyond the patch and repair stage.
Because of the narrow inside shoulders, it only takes one vehicle to back up traffic for
miles. There are some bridges that are too low for today’s freight traffic. Super 70 is a
$175 million investment in the east side of Indianapolis. This investment will replace 75
lane miles of pavement, rehabilitate 28 bridge decks, widen the inside shoulders for
stranded vehicles, build an overpass over Sherman Drive and the railroad, and add new
signs, lighting, and pavement markings.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 5
Phase I of the construction will run from late February to July, 2007. The westbound
lanes will be rebuilt, while the eastbound lanes will remain open for five lanes of traffic.
Phase II of the construction will run from July to late November, 2007. The eastbound
lanes will be rebuilt, while the westbound lanes will be open for five lanes of traffic use.
Both phases will use a moveable barrier system to optimize traffic flow during peak
times. 56,000 vehicles, about one-third of the total traffic will be diverted from I-70 onto
available side streets and I-465. Most trucking companies understand that using I-465
on the south side will add only three miles to their travel and will avoid any construction
zones.
The necessary ramp closings will be at Keystone, Emerson, and Shadeland Avenues.
All Keystone Avenue ramps will be closed February through July; however the inbound
ramp exit will be open from July through November. All Emerson Avenue ramps will be
closed through the month of July; however the inbound exit ramp will be open from July
through November. The eastbound exit ramp to 465/Shadeland will never be closed,
while the westbound entrance ramp from Shadeland will be closed for the duration of the
project.
Thru traffic will be diverted to I-465 and destination traffic will be diverted to city streets.
There is a good established network of city streets that can handle the traffic. These
streets include: Washington, New York, Michigan, 38th, 30th, Massachusetts, Shadeland,
Emerson, and Keystone/Rural. There has been a coordinated effort with INDOT and
DPW to conduct studies on the amount of traffic the city streets can handle. INDOT has
earmarked $1 million for city street improvements, including resurfacing, traffic signal
improvements, and operational improvements.
The incident management plan has been under discussion for several months. Guy
Borroff, INDOT, has met with all the first responders that will be affected including, the
Indianapolis Police Department, Sheriff’s Department, Indianapolis Fire Department, and
Warren Township Fire Department. The plan includes access points for emergency
vehicles through out the construction zone and the ramps will be available for use by
emergency vehicles. The safety of the people within the construction zone is a top
priority and those issues are being addressed by a separate group. This group will be
meeting with the Public Safety Committee on December 20, 2007.
The project website, http://www.super70.in.gov, has the same information included in the
handout. If anyone wishes to sign up for email updates, they can sign up on the website
also. There have been several presentations made to neighborhood and business
associations and the media had been notified. Paid advertisements reminding people to
think about their alternate routes may be another option. Specific tools have been
prepared for affected businesses, including websites, maps, billing inserts, newsletters,
and email.
One of the misconceptions about this project is that the state just decided to do this
without looking at the impact on businesses. This has been a long process, starting
back in June, 2005. There has been a lot of input. In July, 2005, letters were sent
asking for people to attend citizen advisory committee meetings. There were meetings
with INDOT, Department of Public Works (DPW), and Indianapolis Metropolitan Planning

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 6
Organization (MPO). Traffic modeling was also begun during this month. In August,
2005, there were meetings with DPW, INDOT, IndyGo, and other interested groups.
Discussions about closures also began during this month. In September, 2005, talks
began about what street improvements needed to be made to accommodate the extra
traffic. In October, 2005, a formal presentation was made to DPW and the Mayor’s staff.
Additional meetings were held with the public. In December, 2005, meetings with public
safety agencies were held. In January, 2006, meetings with large businesses along the
corridor were held. In September, 2006, construction meetings were held and public
outreach continued. In November, 2006, another meeting with the Mayor’s staff was
held prior to announcing the project. Once the announcement was made, meetings
were held with businesses and neighborhood groups to help mitigate any impact the
project may have on them.
Councillor Abduallah asked how the community has responded and what kind of impact
this will this have on school bus routes and the safety of the children on those buses.
Mr. Dietrick stated that at the last incident management meeting, the public safety
officials brought up this discussion. The school districts are aware of the closings and
the bus dispatchers will be in the discussion meetings. While the project is ongoing,
traffic will be monitored and changes will be made as needed. Councillor Abduallah
stated that council members will receive a lot of calls regarding these issues and asked if
contact information will be available to give to constituents who have problems. Mr.
Dietrick stated that he would be a point person as well as Guy Borroff from the incident
management group. Mr. Borroff will have access to a real-time network of the
construction zone. Councillor Abduallah asked if the construction will take place during
the daylight hours. Mr. Dietrick stated that the construction will take place 24 hours a
day.
Councillor Sanders stated that she serves on the regional transportation policy
committee that is part of the MPO and it seems that this project is on a much more
ambitious, fast track than other projects in the past. She added that in the presentation
it was stated that this began in 2005 and asked what the motivation was for the speed of
this project. Mr. Dietrick stated that it would minimize the inconvenience for people.
Councillor Sanders stated that she understood minimizing inconvenience, but was
referring to the speed at which the project would start in relation to when discussions
were begun. Mr. Dietrick stated that some of this occurred before he began working with
INDOT, but the critical need to get the road fixed was the overriding factor. The road is
35 years old and needed to be reviewed 8 – 10 years prior, but was not. Councillor
Sanders asked if there would be a complete replacement of pavement and if it would be
asphalt, concrete, or a combination of the two. Mr. Whitmore stated that the entire road
would be 16 inch concrete. Councillor Sanders asked if the closed ramps would be
modified or reconfigured. Mr. Dietrick stated that the ramps are not going to be
reconfigured, but any necessary repair or clean up will be done during the project.
Councillor Sanders stated that although it was probably discussed in one of the
meetings, it would seem to be more logical to rotate ramp closures rather than
inconveniently close them all at once. Mr. Dietrick stated that the traffic engineers
thought that it would be safer to let traffic out of the construction zone, but not into the
zone. This would also prevent back-ups on the I-70 mainline. In the current model, the
back ups are projected to be a quarter of a mile long. Opening a ramp here and there
would adversely impact the traffic backups. Councillor Sanders stated that it doesn’t

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 7
seem logical. Mr. Dietrick stated that allowing a place for traffic to enter a three lane,
bumper to bumper, 40 mile per hour work zone would be a traffic hazard in itself.
Because there is no place for the oncoming cars to get into or out of a lane, the potential
for accidents would rise dramatically. Councillor Sanders asked if there were any
examples of the roadway resurfacing the state would be taking on as a result of this
project. Mr. Dietrick stated that he did not bring the full list of these projects, but there
are three that he can list from memory.
Councillor Nytes asked if the city would detail this list. Mr. Dietrick answered in the
affirmative.
Councillor Sanders asked if the State would help the city pay for resurfacing those
streets after the damage from the increased traffic. Mr. Dietrick stated that a plan to help
replace and repair streets was in place and the state would be documenting the
condition of the road surface before and after the project. Councillor Sanders asked if
any IndyGo routes would be changed. Mr. Whitmore stated that there will not have to be
any rerouting for IndyGo. The only rerouting that may occur would be during the 15 – 20
minute closures for the setting of new beams on Sherman Drive, but any closures will be
communicated to IndyGo. Councillor Sanders stated that it is a shame that this project
was not intertwined with rapid transit, so that this kind of resurfacing could include rapid
transit. Chair Nytes concurred.
Chair Nytes stated that none of the roadway on IndyGo’s routes would be shut down, but
asked what kind of impact the additional traffic would have on the route schedules. Mr.
Whitmore stated that route schedules were not a main focus of discussion in the
meetings with IndyGo, but they are aware of the potential problems. IndyGo indicated
that they would look at communicating carpooling and van pooling, as alternatives for
people. Chair Nytes asked if the budget would include funding to add additional IndyGo
runs or a park and ride type project. Mr. Whitmore stated that IndyGo and Central
Indiana Commuter Services indicated that they had some funding available and would
like to use it for this project, including van pooling and carpooling. Chair Nytes asked if
any of the studies indicated how many people use this corridor to get to jobs downtown.
Mr. Whitmore stated that the study wasn’t broken down that way; it is only raw numbers.
The traffic count is about 180,000 vehicles per day and INDOT is looking at ways to help
one-third of the drivers to find alternate routes. The majority of the traffic is destination
traffic. Chair Nytes stated that the majority of drivers are not people who can use I-465
and there is cause for concern that there isn’t a better understanding of destination
traffic. She added that although downtown is making great strides, it is still tenuous.
Perhaps more analysis should have been done on the impact to downtown workers to
decide if this would jeopardize businesses, employees, and visitors. Mr. Dietrick stated
that part of the decision to leave the corridor open to two-way traffic and leave some
ramps open would help indicate that downtown would be accessible.
Councillor Pfisterer stated that she is convinced that the project is long overdue and
although it will be a painful period, it should be a wonderful product in the end. She
asked if the police and fire departments were comfortable with the alternate routes and
emergency access. Mr. Dietrick answered in the affirmative and stated that they are
becoming more comfortable with every meeting. He stated that public safety is
concerned with truck traffic and would have like to see it rerouted altogether, but that

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 8
would hamper local deliveries. A balance had to be found and public safety has been
involved in the planning meetings. Councillor Pfisterer stated that there are a significant
number of accidents on that stretch of road and asked if there would be an emergency
access lane when the project is complete. Mr. Dietrick stated that the 14 foot shoulder
would accommodate emergency vehicles. Councillor Pfisterer asked if there would be
emergency access signage. Mr. Dietrick stated that he did not know; however, that is a
very good idea. Councillor Pfisterer asked if this project would resemble the HyperFix
project on I-65. Mr. Dietrick stated that this project is the same design and construction
as HyperFix with similar incentives and disincentives. Councillor Pfisterer asked if there
would be job creation in relation to this project. Mr. Dietrick stated that he did not know.
Councillor Pfisterer wanted to clarify that the construction work would not be done by
only state employees. Mr. Dietrick stated that very few state employees are actually
employed for the construction of this roadway. Councillor Pfisterer asked if the paid ads
would include information about carpooling. Mr. Dietrick answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if the ads had been designed. Mr. Whitmore stated that the
ads have not been developed yet, but they would be done by February 25, 2007.
Councillor Pfisterer asked if there would be an attempt to promote using IndyGo as an
alternative and if maps of alternate routes would be made available. Mr. Dietrick stated
that several alternate routes are available, but people are very good at finding the routes
that work for them based on their individual destinations. The first week of a project like
this is usually the toughest and that is the reason the state is trying to encourage people
to look for alternate routes sooner rather than later.
Councillor Cain stated that she uses this route to get downtown. Although it may be
inconvenient for a while, the end result will be worth it. It is encouraging that this project
will take less time than it took to build the bridge over Geist Reservoir.
Councillor Sanders asked if the plan included high occupancy lanes. Mr. Dietrick said
not at this point. Councillor Sanders asked if they were considered. Mr. Dietrick stated
that hot lanes are always included in discussions about mobility. Usually hot lanes are
not discussed during construction projects, but when deciding how to best use existing
infrastructure.
Chair Nytes stated that integration of mass transit in this design should have been
considered. There is a significant investment in this project already and it seems as if
the next investment will be lane widening. Lane widening is cause for concern, because
nearby properties and businesses could be severely impacted by that plan. Mr. Dietrick
stated that this project is set up to increase the width of lanes toward the inside, so there
wouldn’t be a need to impact the nearby properties. Chair Nytes stated that if the City is
going to be more forward thinking, we need to stop thinking about the same old solutions
to traffic problems, such as more lanes, bigger lanes, faster lanes, and wider lanes.
Recently, there was an article in Governing Magazine about a city that renovated a
highway and included a corridor for future mass transit, rather than only relying on more
concrete lanes. The planning committee for the 2017 project should include discussions
about mass transit.
Chair Nytes stated that there are still issues about the impact this will have downtown.
Although traffic can still get on and off the highway downtown, the construction will
compress all this traffic into fewer lanes, which will turn a lot of drivers away altogether.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 9
She stated that despite the fact that doing an economic impact study is not required by
law, she would urge INDOT to meet with Indianapolis Downtown Inc. or the MPO to get
a sense of how many people will be affected and their destination. HyperFix was
impressive, but this project is considerably larger and not a good comparison. Chair
Nytes asked who were the members or the Citizen Advisory Committee and if the
committee still meets. Mr. Whitmore stated that the environmental part of the 2017
project requires the Community Advisory Committee (CAC) to participate. CAC’s
involvement began with lighting and sound barriers, but they were brought in for the
early part of this project. The committee has not met since late 2005. The types of
people that were invited were neighborhood association presidents and elected officials
along the corridor. Chair Nytes wanted clarification that the Super 70 project was on the
2014 project agenda. Mr. Whitmore answered in the affirmative and added that it only
made sense to discuss Super 70, as it was the next project. Chair Nytes stated that
adding Super 70 to another agenda may not constitute a CAC for the Super 70 project
and perhaps a meeting should be held.
Chair Nytes asked what impact businesses like FedEx believe this project will have on
them. Mr. Whitmore stated that it was a very short meeting in which FedEx said they
understood logistics and will reroute their trucks. Chair Nytes asked where FedEx
normally accesses I-70. Mr. Whitmore stated that they usually use Massachusetts Ave.
to Emerson, but they also use Keystone/Rural. FedEx indicated that they will probably
use Massachusetts Ave to I-465 during the project. Chair Nytes wanted clarification that
FedEx is located between Sherman and Emerson, north of I-70, and south of
Massachusetts Ave. Mr. Whitmore answered in the affirmative. Chair Nytes wanted
clarification that Indianapolis Public Schools Food Service is also near that location. Mr.
Whitmore answered in the affirmative and added that FedEx’s logistics manager
indicated that Massachusetts Ave to I-465 would be the best alternative. Chair Nytes
asked if anyone had met with Community Hospital. Mr. Whitmore stated that they began
communicating in March, 2006. Mr. Dietrick stated that many of the smaller businesses,
such as Hoosier Gasket, are in need of more of the help we can provide. Chair Nytes
stated that Hoosier Gasket just relocated into the Keystone Enterprise Park and asked if
they would be able to meet their customer’s demands. Mr. Dietrick stated that those
businesses would be able to meet their needs, because of the meetings that were held.
As a result of the meetings, special accommodations have been made, including
readjusting the closure dates for Keystone Ave. Businesses have been coming up with
their own solutions, for example Hoosier Gasket will be using off-site storage to mitigate
the traffic.
Kumar Menon, Department of Public Works Director, stated that DPW began working
with INDOT in 2005. The perception was that this project was already in place. The city
became concerned about residents, businesses, schools, emergency vehicles, and
IndyGo. The city developed a list of improvements that will be needed to accommodate
the extra traffic. INDOT has been helpful by putting up $1 million to assist with those
improvements, but it is not enough to cover all the needs. There will be ongoing needs
during and post construction, on which INDOT has committed to working with the city.
Small things, such as a traffic signal failing during a storm, could cause huge problems
in one of the corridors. The city is planning to put all of its traffic technicians on this
project and $4.5 million dollars has been used to address some of these issues. The
Mayor’s office is concerned and is planning a meeting with the Commissioner.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 10
Carlton Ray, Department of Public Works, Deputy Director of the Engineering Division and
Larry Jones, Department of Public Works, Transportation Administrator, distributed a
handout [Exhibit D] detailing their presentation. [Clerk’s Note: Exhibit D is on file in the
Council Office with the original minutes of this meeting.]
Mr. Ray stated that over the years DPW and INDOT have worked together on a number
of projects, but this particular project has caused concern. The ramp closings along the
corridor and the 60,000 potential vehicles that will be diverted onto local streets are at
the root of those concerns. Some of the improvements that have been suggested
include:
• Resurfacing Shadeland Ave. from 42nd to 49th Streets
• Shadeland Ave., north of 49th St. was resurfaced
• Milling of one lane of 38th Street to Pendleton Pike
• Additional turn lanes at Pendleton Pike
• About 20 traffic signal improvements
Mr. Jones stated that the map distributed by Mr. Dillon [Exhibit B] details the corridor as well as
the alternate routes. DPW had heard about this project during HyperFix and started planning in
2004. The city made several improvements to existing roads in anticipation of this project,
including:
• 2004 – Massachusetts from 10th to Arlington Streets
• 2005 – Capital from Washington St. to Fall Creek Parkway
• 2005 – 10th from Sherman Dr. to Emerson Ave.
• 2005 – Michigan St. from Emerson Ave. to Ritter Ave.
• 2005 – New York St from Pine St. to Highland St.
• 2005 – New York St from Rural Ave. to Sherman Ave.
• 2005 – New York St from Emerson Ave. to Michigan St.
• 2006 – Fall Creek Parkway from Central Ave. to 38th St.
• 2006 – Washington St. from Emerson Ave. to Edmundson Ave.
• 2006 – 38th St. from Fall Creek Pkwy. to Arlington Ave.
Over the three year period, the city invested about $4.2 million in improving city streets in
preparation for the Super 70 project, but these improvements were already needed. DPW
planned and accomplished these projects before 2007 so that they would be ready for the
additional traffic.
Mr. Ray stated that the state has made about $1 million dollars in local improvements. The city
has requested that the state make additional improvements to accommodate the diverted traffic
and post construction restoration. Although many of the issues have been worked out with
INDOT, there are still concerns that are being discussed. Police helicopters will fly over to
monitor the traffic during the initial stages of this project to mitigate any issues.
Councillor Pfisterer said that INDOT stated during their presentation that there would be repairs
made post construction. Mr. Ray stated that several streets have been identified by the city for
repaving post construction. The city has asked for commitments up front from INDOT, so that
there won’t be such a delay that the repairs never get completed. Councillor Pfisterer stated
that INDOT is on record here stating that they will repair those streets. She asked if a resolution
is expected during the requested meeting between the Mayor’s office and Commissioner Brown.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 11
Mr. Ray answered in the affirmative. Councillor Pfisterer stated that she is getting a sense of
negativity from the city about the project. Mr. Ray stated that the city became concerned when
the ramp closures were decided at the very beginning of the process. The city is concerned
about how to divert the traffic from three ramp closings all on the east side. In comparison to
the inconvenience and concerns during HyperFix, this project is much bigger and for a much
longer period of time. Although, the city has had a good relationship with INDOT, the closures
and increased vehicle traffic are a cause of concern. Councillor Pfisterer stated that INDOT
went on record stating that the state would repair the streets to at least the same condition they
were in before the project was started. Mr. Ray stated that roads other than those in the
immediate corridor will also be affected and DPW is asking for additional money to repair those
also. Councillor Pfisterer stated that it is a large project, but it is a necessary project. Mr. Ray
agreed that the project is necessary, and they are trying to work through agreements.
Councillor Pfisterer stated that there is no agreement about implementation and that not all the
ramps will be closed for the duration of the project. Mr. Ray stated that some ramps will reopen
after the first phase, but others will be closed for the entire nine month project.
Chair Nytes stated that she apologizes if the meeting has a negative feel. She said that she
asked for the meeting, because several businesses in her district were affected very negatively
during HyperFix. Several businesses on streets that became the alternate routes, lost parking
spaces and therefore lost customers. She stated that when she heard about Super 70, she
became concerned that the same would happen to businesses along the corridor. The intent of
this meeting was not to be negative, but to make sure everyone understands what is happening.
During HyperFix there was a discussion that there would be no street parking, but that has not
been mentioned in this discussion. She asked if there would be an impact on parking on streets
such as Michigan or New York. Mr. Jones stated that the parking plan would be very similar to
HyperFix. Chair Nytes stated that she had not heard about the parking and wanted to be sure
that the business owners were aware of this before they were impacted. She stated that
business owners also need to be made aware if no left turn signs or other changes would be
implemented before it impacted their businesses. Although nine months doesn’t seem very
long, it is long enough to sink a small business owner. Awareness and communication is the
goal of this meeting, not negativity.
Councillor Pfisterer stated that the businesses along 38th Street would be a wealth of
information about the impact of major construction. Chair Nytes stated that the businesses
along 38th Street had more information than the businesses along this corridor. She added that
a parking plan needs to be communicated now.
Councillor Abduallah stated that this project is in the middle of his district, it affects 30th Street
running north, Tibbs on the west side, and Washington Street on the south side. He said that
the gridlock will impact downtown businesses, commuters, and pedestrians. He said 24 hour
construction will cause problems for sports and other activities and the public needs to be aware
of the alternative routes. The Chamber of Commerce and Indianapolis Downtown Inc. needs to
be involved in these discussions.
Councillor Sanders asked if Commissioner Browning or anyone from INDOT would be in favor
of phasing the ramp closings. Mr. Ray stated that Commissioner Browning is relatively new to
INDOT, but he has publicly stated that there may be additional open time for ramps. Mr. Ray
said that he did not know the results of that request.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 12
Chair Nytes asked for public testimony.
Jim Dora, Jr., General Hotels Corporation stated that he operates the Holiday Inn at 21st Street
and Shadeland Avenue. He said that he understands the need for progress and has been
through many construction projects in the past. Closing all the ramps without alternates is a
concern for service industries that rely on out of town travelers coming in on the highway. If
these travelers cannot get off the highway on the east side, they will go somewhere else and
may not return. The east side has struggled over the last several years and is still suffering.
Attention is being paid to downtown and to traffic that is heading out of town, but none is being
paid to the businesses and residents of the east side of town, who will suffer the most from this
project. He said that he employs about 100 people, most of who are from the eastside, but a
large drop in revenue could mean that people will lose their jobs. A project of this size could put
people who work in other businesses out of work temporarily or permanently, and this project
needs to take these things into account.
Chair Sanders asked Mr. Dora if he could meet with Mr. Dietrick to explore options such as
signage or other efforts by the state to help him and other businesses meet their needs. Mr.
Dora stated that he would be open to working out solutions, to help out of town travelers find
their way to us, in spite of not knowing how to get around town. Chair Nytes thanked Mr. Dora
for speaking and said that the state needs to do more to assist those who need to get through
this nine-month project.
Chair Nytes stated that there will be another opportunity to discuss this project at the Public
Safety and Criminal Justice Committee meeting on December 20, 2006.
Councillor Sanders asked if closing the Shadeland Avenue ramp would also close off access to
I-465. Mr. Jones stated that he believes people will be able to get on I-465 from Shadeland, but
not onto I-70.
Chair Nytes stated that this is explained in more detail in the packet INDOT distributed and
added that this is the type of information that needs to be communicated widely. Mr. Dietrick
stated that this information is available on the website. Chair Nytes stated that the web is good,
but not everyone has access to it.
Chair Nytes stated that it is important that parking and traffic management changes, such as left
turn only areas, are communicated to the public and businesses immediately. Mr. Menon stated
that INDOT has been a good partner and good at communicating when meetings will be held.
DPW also has a public relations staff that attends these meetings. He said that he would like to
thank INDOT for their cooperation. He added that a public education program needs to be
developed, because parking meters will be capped, and that will be a loss of $70,000 of
revenue to the City, as well as an impact on small businesses.
Chair Nytes stated that small business owners should be aware that representatives from the
City, DPW, and INDOT would meet with them and discuss options.
Mr. Dietrick stated that INDOT projects often include repairs for local roads, but he does not
know what the details of those repairs include.

Economic Development Committee
December 13, 2006
Page 13
Chair Nytes wanted to draw attention the Councillors attention to the Municipal Action Guides
[Exhibit E] from the National League of Cities that were included in their meeting packets. She
stated that these were ideas that the committee could discuss in another meeting.
[Clerk’s Note: Exhibit E is on file in the Council Office with the original minutes of this
meeting.]
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was adjourned at
7:13 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Jackie Nytes, Chair
JN/cc


