
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

May 5, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:07 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:51 p.m.
ATTENDANCE
ABSENT MEMBERS

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Jim Bradford
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley
AGENDA

PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
“Do Pass As Amended”
Vote: 6-2

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, May 5, 2005. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:07
p.m. with the following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Greg Bowes, Jim
Bradford, Susie Day, Scott Keller, William Oliver, and Steve Talley. Councillor Lincoln
Plowman was also in attendance.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
Chair Mansfield stated that it is a bit unusual to spend so much time on one proposal
during the Committee process, but it was important to have ample public input on this
issue. She said that the proposal that was introduced in response to community
concerns was very comprehensive. She said that hearings allowed for medical and
scientific evidence to be presented and allowed the hospitality industry to weigh in on
the matter, even though all workplaces are covered in the proposal. She said that the
four public forums brought close to 200 concerned constituents out to speak on this
matter. She thanked the public for letting the Committee know their thoughts. She said
that Councillor Bowes will be presenting some amendments that have come about due
to the input received. These amendments provide exemptions for bars, taverns and
private clubs. The amendments also eliminate restrictions in outdoor areas, except for
the 10-foot restriction within an entrance or exit to a building. Some said that 60 days
was not enough time to adjust to the change, and therefore the effective date was
extended to six months to October 1, 2005. She said that the Committee is aware that
with these changes, they have the support of the general community, the Indianapolis
Chamber of Commerce, the health community (although they wanted it to be much
stricter), and the Minority Health Coalition. She said that it is interesting that the
Chamber has taken so much time to study this issue and its effect on their members,
and these amendments take into consideration almost all of their recommendations.
She said that the Indiana Business Journal and Indianapolis Star have printed several
editorials in support of the ordinance. She said that there has been some discussion
about further extending the effective date, but she personally does not see any
justification for doing so. She said that the general community, the Indianapolis
Chamber of Commerce, and others do not feel additional time is needed.
Councillor Bradford moved, seconded by Councillor Day, to “Table” Proposal No. 45,
2005. He said that this amendment is pretty new, and there are others in the
community who have not been heard on these changes. This proposal will cause Broad
Ripple to basically go to all over-21 establishments and will hurt the high-end
establishments like St. Elmo’s Steak House.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 2
Councillor Abduallah said that to consider tabling the proposal undermines all the work
that has been done and the time and effort the community has put into this process. He
said that he would speak against the motion to table and urge his fellow Committee
members to move forward and support the ordinance and do what they know to be
right.
Councillor Oliver said that this journey began several months ago and there have been
numerous individuals to present testimony. He said that they have had time to take it all
in and they need to now proceed with deliberate speed. More study will not accomplish
anything, and he urged his fellow Councillors to oppose the motion.
Chair Mansfield said that she agrees with Councillors Abduallah and Oliver that there
has been ample time and information to make an informed decision. She said that the
proposal was introduced on February 7, 2005, and they have had several months to
review the issues. She said that she believes when Committee members hear the
details of these amendments, they will gain a better understanding that the
amendments actually are in response to all the input that has taken place.
Councillor Bradford said that he received a call from the Indianapolis Star and this
amendment was obviously leaked to the paper before he even saw it. He said that the
amendment was then e-mailed to him by Councillor Bowes the next day. He said that
10% of all liquor license holders in the State of Indiana are affected, and they do not
have an opportunity to respond to these changes. He said that the City and State have
no problem collecting taxes from these business owners, but then want to turn around
and tell them how to run their business. Many of these individuals have spent
thousands of dollars to renovate their facilities recently without knowing they would
need further changes due to a new law. He said that they are now being asked to pay
an extra one percent while lawmakers are not willing to listen to them.
Councillor Keller said that he is against tabling the proposal. He said that the
amendments are extremely easy to understand and are pretty much what the Chamber
of Commerce asked for on behalf of their members. He said that he has spoken to
businesses today and almost all are in favor of the amendments. He said that there has
been ample opportunity for discussion and public input.
Councillor Bowes said that he has done his best to share these amendments early and
often in response to the concerns that have been expressed from the hospitality
industry, the Chamber, and other Councillors. He said that these amendments will help
business owners and makes the proposal less strict than the original that was proposed.
He said that there should be no more delay.
The motion to “Table” Proposal No. 45, 2005 failed by a vote of 2-6, with Councillors
Bradford and Day casting the affirmative votes.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 3
Councillor Bowes moved, seconded by Councillor Talley, to “Amend” Proposal No. 45,
2005 as per Exhibit A.
Councillor Bradford asked if this Exhibit is the same version that he received earlier.
Councillor Bowes said that that there was one technical change to use the proper
license name by changing “food service permit” to “retail food establishment license” in
Sec. 616-205 (a) (8) (f) (ii). He said that this is the only change.
Chair Mansfield invited Dr. Virginia Caine, executive director of the Marion County
Health Department (MCHD), to come forward to explain how the proposal will be
enforced after Councillor Bowes presents the amendments.
Councillor Bowes detailed the following changes:
• In Sec. 616-101 (m), the language “certain outdoor areas” was eliminated.
• The current Sec. 616-203. “Prohibition of smoking in outdoor areas” was
eliminated in its entirety. He said that there are now no restrictions on smoking in
outdoor areas other than the 10-foot requirement from an entrance or exit to a
building, which he will refer to later.
• In the old Sec. 616-204 and newly numbered Sec. 626-203, language was added
to clarify that smoking is prohibited in government owned facilities “if those
vehicles or enclosed areas are used for any governmental function.” He said that
this amendment was in response to Councillor Bradford’s input about the
confusion in this section.
• In the new Sec. 616-204 and old Sec. 616-205, the word “insure” was changed to
“ensure” to be more grammatically correct.
• In the newly numbered Sec. 616-205, section number references were changed
to reflect the above changes, and item number (8) was eliminated as previously
written, since outdoor areas are no longer restricted and this entire section deals
with outdoor patio seating at bars and restaurants. He said that outdoor seating
now follows the restrictions of the eating establishment. A new item number (8)
was added to provide an exemption for bars or taverns with certain requirements:
o The establishment must hold a beer, liquor, or wine retailer’s permit under
the laws of Indiana.
o The establishment must not allow any customer under the age of 21 to
enter and may not employ any person under the age of 18.
o The establishment cannot be physically located within another business
that is required to be smokefree. If a bar is a smaller portion of a larger
restaurant owned by the same business, the entire restaurant, including
the bar area, must be smokefree.
o The establishment cannot be a restaurant that primarily sells food.
o The establishment must provide notice to the MCHD annually with its retail
food establishment license application as to its intent to be an over-21
establishment that allows smoking. For 2005, this notice must be sent by
October 1, 2005. Councillor Bowes said that MCHD is willing to add a
checkbox to their form to accommodate this exemption. Bars will not be

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 4

•

•
•
•
•
•

allowed to submit this application more than once in a calendar year, and
therefore they cannot choose to be smokefree one day and then become
a smoking establishment the next. Councillor Bowes said that they will
have to make a choice.
A new item (9) was also added under Sec. 616-205 to provide an exemption for
clubs that meet certain requirements:
o They must be exempt from federal income taxation.
o The establishment must be a “club” or “fraternal club” as defined by the
Indiana Code (Exhibits B and C).
o The establishment must hold a beer, liquor, or wine retailer’s permit under
the laws of Indiana.
o The establishment must only provide food or alcohol to its bona fide
members and their guests.
In Sec 616-301, the “no smoking” sign requirement was eliminated, as this
requirement is already mandated by State law, and it is therefore redundant to
include it in this ordinance.
A new item (b) is added to Sec. 616-301 to provide that all establishments
exempted under the previous section must post a sign that lets all customers
know they are a smoking establishment.
In Sec. 616-401, item (b) was eliminated because police officers and sheriff’s
deputies already have the right to enforce any ordinance and issue citations.
A new item (d) was added to Sec. 616-401 to make owners and managers of
those establishments which have been granted an exemption responsible to
ensure that no patrons under the age of 21 enter the establishment.
Section 3 changes the effective date from 60 days to six months, making the
effective date October 1, 2005.

Councillor Bowes said that the amendment for Section 3 is the remaining controversial
amendment. He said that the amendment extends the effective date another four
months in response to the business community saying that they needed time to adjust
to the change. He said that personally he does not see why more time is needed, as in
most cases, it will simply mean removing ashtrays and asking people not to smoke. He
said that there is no special investment required. He said that the extension was made,
however, to ensure that businesses fully understand the new regulations and to give
MCHD the time to conduct an educational campaign.
Chair Mansfield invited Dr. Caine to comment on MCHD’s plans for enforcement of this
ordinance. Dr. Caine applauded the Committee for addressing this very sensitive public
health issue. She said that the goal of this ordinance is to make the City the healthiest
community it can be, and she applauded the proposal sponsors and Council President
Talley for their efforts to address this problem. She detailed MCHD’s plans to enforce
the ordinance should it pass, as outlined in Exhibit D.
Councillor Oliver said that violations being issued for ashtrays or smoking receptacles
closer than 10 feet from the exterior of an establishment concerns him. He said that

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 5
without providing these types of receptacles, the problem of littering might become more
prevalent when the storefronts are right on the sidewalk and do not allow 10 feet for a
receptacle to be located. Dr. Caine said that this is a very good point, and they will
have to look at this further, as they certainly do not want citizens discarding their
cigarettes on the sidewalk.
Councillor Bradford said that the proposal shows enforcement to be the Department of
Metropolitan Development and other City divisions, and not MCHD. Dr. Caine said that
there will need to be an addendum to the ordinance. She said that the Health
Department must first have this ordinance passed by the Council before it can go before
the Health and Hospital Corporation Board. Chair Mansfield said that once MCHD’s
board adopts the ordinance, then it becomes their law. Councillor Bradford asked once
Indianapolis passes the ordinance if this then gives MCHD the authority to go to the
excluded cities and enforce these regulations on them, as well. Councillor Bowes said
that the Council has no power over the excluded cities or over the MCHD. Councillor
Bradford said that the Council appoints individuals to the MCHD board, so there is some
limited control there. Councillor Bowes said that because they do not have authority
over the Health Department, they could not technically include them in the ordinance as
an enforcement agency. He said that it is his understanding that the Health Department
is fully supportive of this ordinance and may exercise its own ordinance-writing power to
give themselves the authority to enforce the same kinds of rules. He said with regards
to whether or not they can do that in Lawrence, Speedway, and the other excluded
cities, he does not know the answer to that. He said that this is something the MCHD
would have to answer with regards to their jurisdiction. Councillor Bradford asked Dr.
Caine to confirm for the Committee before Monday night’s Council meeting whether or
not MCHD has the authority to impose the same regulations on the excluded cities. Dr.
Caine said that she will get legal clarification regarding this authority. She said,
however, that she cannot presume to say how the board will vote with regards to such
an issue.
Councillor Bradford asked with the added enforcement and possible hiring of more
inspectors, if this will cause the cost of Board of Health permits to increase. He said
that the added costs of the education campaign may also cause increases in permit
fees. Dr. Caine said that they have tried to design the program so that it will not create
too much of an additional burden to their current program, and she does not believe it
will cause any significant increase in costs. Councillor Bradford said if fees were
increased, then the restaurants would again be paying for this added enforcement of
places like law offices and hair salons. Chair Mansfield said that MCHD will not be the
only people to enforce the ordinance, but simply the primary enforcers. Dr. Caine said
that they are looking at, and feel confident they will receive, some subsidized funding to
help with the costs of this program. Councillor Bradford asked if this is federal grant
money. Dr. Caine said that it is.
Councillor Abduallah asked if this enforcement would be primarily routine for inspectors
and just an added step in their normal process. Dr. Caine said that this is correct. She

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 6
said that this would just require an added checkmark in the normal routine inspections
and would most likely not require any additional staff or additional cost to restaurant
owners.
Councillor Bowes asked about the educational/public relations campaign component of
the program. He asked if Dr. Caine has talked to other cities who have gone smokefree
and if they anticipate how long the campaign may take and if it can be successfully
completed before October 1, 2005. Dr. Caine said that it can easily be conducted
before October 1, 2005. She said that they have had an extensive amount of
discussion with other cities who have passed similar ordinances. Councillor Bowes
asked if in her discussions with other cities, anyone mentioned that the businesses
complained that the educational campaign was not informative enough or not long
enough. Dr. Caine said that they have not spoken with individual businesses, but have
spoken with the Health Departments and city representatives, and these
implementations have been well documented by the media and there have been some
very successful campaigns. She added that from the Health Department’s perspective,
they would not require the full six months for implementation and education.
Councillor Oliver asked if the Chamber of Commerce has offered input that the sixmonth time period is reasonable for them to notify their members. Mark Fisher,
business advocacy manager for the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, said that the
Chamber supports a six-month implementation time frame as long as there is proper
education provided. He said that if there is not support on the Council for this time
frame, however, they would support a compromise, as compromise has brought them
where they are today.
Dr. Caine thanked the Committee for being so thoughtful throughout this entire process.
She added that whatever the MCHD can do to help further, please call on them to do
so.
Councillor Bowes asked if Mr. Fisher has heard any legitimate business reason why the
implementation date should be extended beyond the October 1, 2005 date. Mr. Fisher
said that he has not heard from any of their members that this date would be
problematic. Chair Mansfield asked how many members the Chamber has. Mr. Fisher
said that they have 3,800 members. Chair Mansfield asked if they have heard from any
of these members with regards to the effective date. Mr. Fisher said that the news
article just came out yesterday, but they have not heard anything from their members as
of yet.
Councillor Bradford asked of their 3,800 members, what percentage of those are
actually in Indianapolis and Marion County. Mr. Fisher said that 75% of their members
are in Marion County. Councillor Bradford asked how many of these Marion County
members are restaurants. Mr. Fisher said that he cannot say for sure. Councillor
Bradford asked if St. Elmo’s Steak House is a member. Mr. Fisher said that they are.
Councillor Bradford asked if the Chamber has talked to them regarding their views. Mr.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 7
Fisher said that St. Elmo’s came with the rest of the Restaurant and Hospitality
Association and made a presentation when they came up with their position statement.
Councillor Bradford asked if St. Elmo’s had a problem with the ban. Mr. Fisher said that
they would probably rather not see a ban at all, but he does not speak specifically for St.
Elmo’s. Councillor Bradford asked if a majority of the restaurants the Chamber
represents oppose the ban. Mr. Fisher said that he cannot answer that. He said that
they have not heard from their members that they are objecting to the Chamber’s
position. Councillor Bradford asked if the Chamber has polled all their members. Mr.
Fisher said that they have asked for their members’ comments several times.
Councillor Bradford asked if Mr. Fisher should not call his members for their input. Mr.
Fisher said that it is not possible for him to call all their 3,800 members in two days. He
said, however, that they send out a weekly newsletter to all members and they have not
heard anything negative from their members about their position. Chair Mansfield said
that it is not really appropriate to put Mr. Fisher on the spot regarding his personal
contact with members.
Councillor Bradford referred to the 10-foot requirement. He said that his restaurant has
a deck entrance which is only 20 feet, but if a person cannot smoke within 10 feet of the
door, then there would be no smoking on his deck. Chair Mansfield said that on the
extra 10 feet of patio space, smoking would be allowed. Councillor Bradford said that in
Broad Ripple most patios are very small and patrons usually have to walk through
patios to get to the entrance. He said that patios are therefore not all smokefree.
Councillor Bowes said that the 10-foot requirement is intended to keep smoke from
getting inside a smokefree area. He said that any portion of the patio that is 10 feet
from the entrance or exit, can be a smoking area, due to the elimination of the outdoor
areas. He added, however, that if the establishment meets the exemption criteria and is
designated a smoking establishment, there is no 10-foot requirement.
Councillor Bradford said that on many city blocks in Broad Ripple, there may be four
bars in a row, and with larger crowds on weekends they will have to queue the lines to
get in. He said with the 10-foot requirement, this would mean those standing in line
would have to go out into the middle of the street in order to smoke, because the
sidewalks are narrow, and the queue lines would be too close to the entrance.
Councillor Bowes said that one of the reasons the requirement was amended at the last
meeting from 50 feet to 10 feet was because of Councillor Bradford’s concerns raised at
a previous meeting. He said that he did visit Broad Ripple and counted out the feet and
agreed that 50 feet was extensive. However, he does not believe going less than 10
feet is too extensive, and this will still leave room on the sidewalk for smokers. He said,
however, that most of these places will fit the exemption and will already be smoking
establishments, and therefore the 10-foot regulation would not apply.
Councillor Bradford asked why the language about a tobacco bar in operation on
February 7, 2005 is still in the ordinance. He said that it seems this would only cover
one establishment, Nicky Blaine’s Cigar and Martini Bar. He said that another tobacco
bar would then not be allowed in Indianapolis. Chair Mansfield said that another

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 8
tobacco bar could qualify through the bar or tavern exemption. Councillor Bradford
asked then why the language is still included, other than to protect Nicky Blaine’s. Chair
Mansfield said that she does not see any reason to change the language, as she still
sees a reason to classify tobacco bars differently when a large percentage of their
revenue comes from the sale of tobacco items. Councillor Bowes said that this raises a
good point. Those people who consider themselves a tobacco bar would probably fit
under the bar and tavern exemption. The other concern was like that heard from those
in the bowling industry who would rather no one be exempted if an ordinance was to be
enacted. This brings the Committee back to the question as to whether anyone or no
one should be given a break. He said that the community sentiment was that bars and
taverns should be exempt. He said that it is difficult to determine where the line should
be drawn.
Councillor Bradford asked if he understands correctly that an 18-year-old can be
employed to work in a tavern. He said that according to State law, his 19-year-old
daughter can go into any tavern or bar as long as she is accompanied by a parent or
guardian. This ordinance says that his daughter could work for a tavern, but could not
go in a tavern to eat with him. Councillor Bowes said that she could go into a
smokefree bar. He said that the sentiment from the community was that if a person was
drinking in a bar, they should be allowed to smoke. If a person was eating in a
restaurant, they should not be exposed to secondhand smoke. He said that he
personally does not think anyone should be exposed under the age of 21 at any time.
Councillor Bradford said that Broad Ripple Steak House has an upper room bar, and a
restaurant which is non-smoking on one side. This owner could have his daughter work
there, but could never eat with his daughter if they decide to go to an over-21
establishment. Chair Mansfield said that this is not correct, because the Broad Ripple
Steak House would not meet the smoking exemptions, as they are a restaurant which
primarily sells food and the entire establishment would be smokefree. Councillor
Bradford then asked if St. Elmo’s and other high-end restaurants would automatically
have to be smokefree and could not opt to be over-21 establishments. Chair Mansfield
said that this is correct.
Councillor Bradford asked if 50% percentage of food sales qualifies an establishment as
a restaurant instead of a bar. Councillor Bowes said that the language of the ordinance
simply says an establishment which “primarily sells food.” He said that they did not put
a percentage in there because they did not want to box in an establishment. Councillor
Bradford asked what happens to an establishment who one year sells more in alcohol
and then the next sells more in food. Councillor Bowes said that they did not want to
encourage owners to cheat and ring up beers as steak dinners in order to make the
percentage cut-off. Councillor Bradford asked then if it depends on the application to
the Board of Health and which box is checked. Councillor Bowes said that this is
correct.
Councillor Keller said that the goal is to give businesses more choices. He said that the
Committee is trying to heed the will of the people, and therefore there will be some

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 9
inconsistencies. With the original ordinance, there were not any complicated
understandings, as it eliminated smoking everywhere. He said that they are now giving
more choices to establishments. A smoking establishment can still have a non-smoking
section.
Councillor Abduallah said that the effort was to carve out something that makes sense
and responds to the requests of constituents. He said that they could nit-pick the
ordinance back and forth, but this ordinance is formulated to save lives. He said that
the Committee should try to see the positives in the ordinance for the protection of the
community instead of trying to tear it apart bit by bit with specifics.
Councillor Day asked if an establishment could still have smoking and non-smoking
sections. Chair Mansfield stated that if a bar met the exemptions to qualify as a
smoking establishment, they could still have a non-smoking section if they wanted.
Restaurants, however, must be smokefree and cannot have a smoking section.
Councillor Keller added that at any time, without waiting for the annual exemption, a
smoking establishment could become a non-smoking establishment.
Councillor Bradford asked about the 50-member requirement for clubs, and stated that
within the old fire district, clubs are designated at 25 members. Councillor Bowes said
that he searched for every mention of clubs he could find in the alcohol code and did not
see this distinction. However, he will be glad to review this issue further to ensure they
are not missing anything.
Councillor Bradford asked with regards to owners removing smoking paraphernalia, if
this would include matches. He said that many restaurants would need matches to light
a stove burner, pilot light, or candles on the tables. Chair Mansfield said that she
believes inspectors and enforcement personnel will use common sense in this area.
Councillor Bradford asked if he can get a copy of Sec. 103-3 where all the fees and
fines are outlined. Councillor Bowes said that this section contains numerous fees, and
the fines would be handled the same as parking tickets without going to court.
Councillor Bradford asked if this fine is $100. Councillor Bowes said that it would be for
the first offense. Councillor Bradford asked what the fee would be for the second
offense. Councillor Bowes said that for multiple offenses, a judge would make a
determination as to whether or not the individual is trying to comply with the law or not.
Councillor Bradford asked if the second offense would then take the case to court.
Councillor Bowes said that it would if it were in the same calendar year. Councillor
Bradford asked which court these issues would go to. Councillor Bowes said that they
would typically go to Environmental Court. Councillor Bradford asked if further offenses
could lead to the revocation of a permit. Councillor Bowes said that the judge has the
power to impose such revocation. Councillor Bradford asked if this simply refers to the
Board of Health permit and not an alcohol license. Councillor Bowes said that he does
not know if the judge has the authority to revoke an alcohol license, and that would be a
complex legal issue. He said that the alcohol license regulating body could, however,

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 10
use ordinance violations as factors in revoking a license. Councillor Bradford said that
they could not take away a law license of a law office that was not in compliance.
Councillor Bowes said that they could not. Councillor Bradford asked if there were any
other revocation of a permit other than the retail food permit. Councillor Bowes said that
the ordinance was referring to the Board of Health’s permit.
Councillor Oliver asked for an explanation of the excluded cities as it relates to this
ordinance. Chair Mansfield said that this Council does not have jurisdiction over the
excluded cities, but the Marion County Health Department does have county-wide
jurisdiction and will most likely adopt what the Council passes. Councillor Bowes said
that this ordinance would be enforceable over the entire county except for those
excluded cities of Speedway, Lawrence, Beech Grove, and Southport. He said that he
believes MCHD can require the excluded cities to abide by the same regulations, but
the board could choose not to do so. Councillor Bradford said that he believes MCHD
does have the authority, and then those excluded cities would have no public input into
these regulations. Chair Mansfield said that the Board of Health meetings are public
meetings, and the public would be allowed to testify at those.
Chair Mansfield called for public testimony as it relates specifically to the amendments
being offered this evening.
Mark Webb, Indiana Licensed Beverage Association, Marion County chapter, said that
the “primarily sells food” language is very vague and he has concerns about a place that
sells more than 50% of their revenue in food, but has always been considered a bar and
has always been age-restricted. He said that there are three types of alcohol permits,
and the largest one requires $100,000 in food sales in an effort to turn bars into
restaurants and discourage drunk driving. This ordinance undermines that effort.
Larry Vaughn, citizen, stated that this is a convention city and many drinking
conventions are brought to this city. He asked how out-of-state visitors will be pursued
to pay these fines. He added that this is unnecessary and will be arbitrarily applied
against black businesses. He said that this ordinance intrudes on civil rights.
Mark Fisher, business advocacy manager of the Chamber of Commerce, applauded the
Committee for their efforts at compromise. He said that they still have concerns about
the 10-foot regulation as they would like to see no outdoor restrictions. He added that
the language regarding a restaurant that “primarily sells food” is very vague.
Bill Bowes, citizen, said that 250 people die each year and 400 to 500 people are
hospitalized from secondhand smoke-related diseases. He said that waiting six months
could bring 100 more deaths and numerous more hospitalizations, and he believes
implementation could take place even more expeditiously.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 11
Tim Filler, citizen, applauded the Committee for having the courage to take on this
issue. He said the ordinance is not as comprehensive as he would prefer, but it is a
great accomplishment and a good start.
Joe Wilson, bar owner, named several small neighborhood restaurants that would not
meet the bar exemptions because of food sales and said that these businesses will still
be hurt with this ordinance.
John Livengood, Restaurant and Hospitality Association, said that this amendment does
not satisfy the Association’s concerns. He said that all bars and taverns are also
restaurants according to Indiana law and he also is concerned by the vague wording of
restaurants which “primarily sell food.” He said that he believes the age requirement
should be 18 years old, as State law allows 18-year-olds to be in a bar with a parent or
guardian and 18 is the legal age of majority.
Mary Wyman, Peppy Grill, stated that 80% of her customers smoke, and this ordinance,
even with the amendments, will cause her to go out of business, as she will not qualify
for a bar exemption.
Rebecca Pardue, Marty’s Bar and Grill, said that these amendments do not address her
concerns and this ordinance will kill her business. She said that she will not be allowed
to offer special karaoke events for children, which the neighborhood enjoys.
Rhoda Walker, owner of three neighborhood bars, said that she will not be able to put a
restaurant in one of her bars as she wants to because of this amendment.
Nick Baker, American Cancer Society, said that he supports the changes. Although he
would like the ordinance to be more comprehensive, this will go a long way to protect
the health of citizens.
Betty Bledsoe, citizen, thanked the Committee for considering a compromise and for all
the efforts they have made to provide a healthy environment for everyone. She said
that there is always room for compromise, and there is always room for growth. She
added that she would like to see the ordinance go into effect today.
Councillor Bradford asked where bars in hotels would be categorized. Chair Mansfield
said if the bar is not located within another business that is required to be smokefree, it
could be a smoking establishment. She said that hotel public areas are already
smokefree, with 20% of rooms set aside for smoking. She said that a hotel bar, unless
it was stand-alone, would not fit the other criteria for an exemption if it were located
within a restaurant in the hotel.
Councillor Bradford asked about the Convention Center and the Sports Spectrum
betting facility, which is housed within the Claypool hotel, but is an over-21 betting
establishment. Councillor Bowes said that the Convention Center would be smokefree,

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 12
and if the Sports Spectrum met the other bar and tavern exemption requirements, they
could be a smoking establishment. He said that this amendment gives establishments
some self-selection and allows them to prove that they qualify for an exemption. He
said that not every business can be exempted in order to protect the community, and he
tried to draw the line to most closely reflect community sentiment.
Councillor Keller said that he has confidence in the Council and the MCHD board that
this ordinance will be administered well. If changes are needed in the future, they can
be made.
Councillor Oliver moved, seconded by Councillor Talley, to call for the question on the
motion to “Amend” Proposal No. 45, 2005. Proposal No. 45, 2005 was amended by a
vote of 7-1, with Councillor Bradford casting the negative vote.
Councillor Talley said that he has heard from a number of small businesses that would
like to comply with the ordinance but are not members of the Chamber of Commerce
because they are smaller establishments. He said that one in particular is a small
establishment with 11 tables, with 80 to 85% of customers who smoke, run by a single
mother who has taken a second mortgage on her home to help finance her business.
He said that this owner is concerned about the effective date. Although she feels it
would be to her benefit to become smokefree, she is uncomfortable about the
unforeseen effect to her business because of the second mortgage on her home. He
said that another business owner just spent $160,000 remodeling and is uncomfortable
with the amount of time they must come into compliance after spending so much
money. He said that many of these owners base their businesses on three or five-year
business plans and need time to reconstruct those plans. He said that it is not as easy
as simply removing ash trays from the tables and putting up signage.
Councillor Talley moved, seconded by Councillor Keller, to change the effective date
from October 1, 2005 to April 1, 2006.
Councillor Keller said that he would like to see it happen sooner, but he also
understands the need for education and for businesses to make plans about how to
proceed to make their business the most profitable it can be.
Chair Mansfield said that she is opposed to the extension of the effective date any
further. She said that the Committee has been discussing this issue for nine months,
and she believes many compromises have already been made. She said that she does
not want to seem flippant about the fear of the unknown for many of these business
owners, but the health concerns also need to be considered.
Councillor Bowes agreed and said that both the Chamber and MCHD said that six
months would be sufficient and he has not really heard a legitimate reason to extend the
date. He said that only those who oppose the ordinance as a whole would really benefit
from the extension. He said that they need to take steps to protect citizens’ health now.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
May 5, 2005
Page 13
Councillor Oliver said that he will also oppose the amendment, because he has not
heard anything that would explain a reason for a delay and he wants to protect children
now.
Councillor Talley’s motion to “Amend” Proposal No. 45, 2005 failed by a vote of 2-6,
with Councillors Talley and Keller casting the affirmative votes.
Councillor Bradford said that he is sorry to vote against Councillor Talley’s motion, as he
would like to see the proposal tabled, but prolonging it further would make a bad law
even worse.
Councillor Talley said that he does not take any negative votes as personal votes
against him, but he was simply trying to accommodate the concerns of his constituents.
He said that he appreciates all the hard work the chair has put into these hearings and
into the ordinance. He said that it has been a difficult issue. He added that no one is
more committed to a smokefree environment than him because of the personal effect
this issue has had on his family. He said that the first thing he did as President of the
Council was to set up this special committee to address the smokefree issue and other
issues that affect children. Councillor Talley said that he does not, however, want those
who cannot afford to be represented by the Chamber of Commerce to have their views
less represented. He said that the national chain restaurants will survive, but some
small businesses may not. Those that do, it will take them longer to feel comfortable
that they will survive.
Councillor Abduallah commended everyone on their efforts. He said that this was a
hard decision, but the right thing to do.
Councillor Abduallah moved, seconded by Councillor Bowes, to send Proposal No. 45,
2004 to the full Council with a “Do Pass As Amended” recommendation. The motion
carried by a vote of 6-2, with Councillors Bradford and Day casting the negative votes.
Chair Mansfield thanked the Committee for the tremendous hours they have put into
this issue and thanked the public for coming forward and giving their input into the
process. Councillor Talley thanked Chair Mansfield for all of her hard work and her
patience and graciousness with both Committee members and the public. Councillor
Abduallah thanked Councillor Bowes for all his hard work in helping to draft the
ordinance and its amendments. There being no further business, and upon motion duly
made, the meeting was adjourned at 8:51 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

March 10, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:42 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

10:16 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Greg Bowes
Jim Bradford
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS
Susie Day

AGENDA
HOSPITALITY PERSPECTIVE
Indiana Restaurant & Hospitality Association - John Livengood, President
Slippery Noodle - Hal Yeagy, Owner
Nicky Blaine's - Simon Robinson, Owner
Buffalo Wild Wings - Mike DeWeese
Outback Steakhouse - John Benjamin
General Hotels - Tim Worthington
Scotty's Brewhouse - Scotty Wise
Hall's Castleton Grill – Don “Bud” Hall
Mo's...A Place for Steaks - Jeremiah Hammon
Marion County Licensed Beverage Association - Mark Webb
Living Room Lounge - Deborah McLaughlin
Hogan’s Pub - David Hogan
Indiana Amusement and Music Operators Association - Bill Smythe, President
and Leslie A. Murphy, Executive Director
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
“Postpone” until May 5, 2005
Vote: 4-1

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, March 10, 2005. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:42
p.m. with the following members present: Greg Bowes, Jim Bradford, Scott Keller,
William Oliver, and Steve Talley. Susie Day was absent. Councillors Scott Schneider
and Lincoln Plowman were also in attendance.
Chair Mansfield stated that each Committee member has some information that was
passed out regarding the economic impact of smokefree laws based on case studies; a
one-year review of New York City’s smokefree state performed by the city’s
Departments of Finance, Health & Mental Hygiene, Small Business Services, and
Economic Development; and an article referring to a tobacco industry study of New
York’s smokefree air act. [Clerk’s Note: These documents are attached as Exhibits A,
B and C.] She stated that this evening’s hearing will focus on the hospitality perspective.
HOSPITALITY PERSPECTIVE
Indiana Restaurant & Hospitality Association - John Livengood, President
Mr. Livengood stated that he represents the hospitality industry on many issues, and he
is here tonight to oppose a smoking ban in restaurants. He said that restaurant owners
want to keep the welcome mat out for everyone, and they also want to keep the
welcome mat out in Indianapolis for convention business. The Association’s opposition
to this ordinance is a philosophical one, as many of their restaurants have already gone
smokefree. He said that the Association represents a broad spectrum of hospitality
establishments, including hotels, full-service fine dining, casual dining, and
neighborhood family-owned restaurants.
Mr. Livengood said that he is not a smoker, but people who smoke have a right to
assemble with other people who smoke, just as he has a right to assemble with people
who do not smoke. The proposal to ban smoking in privately owned and operated
businesses is an unwarranted and unnecessary infringement on the civil liberties of
individual citizens and the property rights of business owners. He stated that individuals
have given up far too many personal freedoms and rights to the government already,
and have accepted limitations in the name of security, religious values, or political
correctness. This proposal takes away the right of business owners to make a business
decision and the right of individuals to choose what businesses they patronize.
Throughout the history of this country, freedom has been expanded and choices
enlarged for citizens, but unfortunately, today there are efforts to use the police powers
of the government to impose the preferences of some on everyone. Government

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 2
should do just the opposite and seek to jealously protect the rights of all citizens to
make their own choices whenever possible. Government is within its rights to ban
smoking on public property, but the line should be drawn at private property. He said
this is one of the strictest proposals he has seen across the country. In Marion County,
half of the Association’s members are smokefree and only 22 allow smoking throughout
their business. A growing number of restaurants limit smoking to only their bar area or
a separate room. These smokefree environments are being provided in a city that has
no government-imposed smoking restrictions. The hospitality industry is providing
consumers with choices and responding to the wishes of its customers. Mr. Livengood
referred to a website that shows which restaurants offer smoking and which do not.
(www.DiningChoicesIn.com) A “one-size-fits-all” government-imposed solution will not
work for everyone. Passage of a smoking ban would result in economic hardship for
those Marion County businesses with a customer base that includes a large percentage
of smokers. There is no need to endanger any business, endanger the job of any
employee, or discourage conventions and visitors to the community. Indianapolis
should let the current state law and the marketplace continue to provide choices to
everyone. Mr. Livengood urged those who feel passionately about the need for a ban to
simply patronize the growing number of restaurants that choose to be smokefree. He
stated that in Maryland, the proposed smoking ban was defeated for the third year in a
row. One of the factors for making that decision was a study done by the Maryland
Restaurant Association about the economic impact. He provided a copy of this report
and testimony for committee members. [Clerk’s Note: A copy of this report is on file in
the Council office with the original set of minutes.]
Chair Mansfield thanked Mr. Livengood for his testimony. She stated that after all
presenters have spoken, she will allow questions and comments as they relate
specifically to the information presented this evening. She said that there will be many
more opportunities for non-specific public input at four public forums, the first one to be
held on March 30, 2005.
Slippery Noodle - Hal Yeagy, Owner
Mr. Yeagy stated that he is opposed to Proposal No. 45, 2005, not because it deals with
smoking, but because it deals with another government regulation of private property.
The Slippery Noodle Inn employs approximately 50 people and does close to $1 million
a year in food sales. They allow minors in the atrium area, which is a non-smoking
area, during their lunch and dinner hours. This is in response to conventions that come
to town and family-oriented shows. Proposal No. 45, 2005 demands a fundamental
change in the nature of his business. This would change the entire attitude and
atmosphere of his establishment. People want to socialize in a relaxed, fun
atmosphere, and drinking and smoking tend to go together. Sixty percent of their
customers have told them they would come to the Noodle less often if smoking was not
allowed. The business owners would have to enforce the ban, pay the fines, and risk
losing their licenses, thus putting them out of business. Mr. Yeagy said that this
proposal would prohibit him from smoking in his own office in his own building during

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 3
hours when the Noodle is closed. The Noodle’s business deals with many things that
are considered unhealthy, such as alcohol, red meat, late hours, and fried foods. Which
of these things will be the next public health item from which citizens need to be
protected? He provided a copy of an article (attached as Exhibit D) by Arthur Farnsley,
a researcher and writer, who says better than he can why he opposes this proposal.
Mr. Yeagy quoted from the article and stated that the real problem is that the
government is trying to legislate what private business owners and private citizens do
on private property. He said that his employees and clients know that a visit to his
establishment includes exposure to some smoke. He said that he has no problem
putting up signage or wording on job applications warning of the exposure to smoke, but
he has a problem with the government telling him what he can do on private property
with a legal and subsidized product.
Nicky Blaine's - Simon Robinson, Owner
Simon Robinson stated that he is the president and chief executive officer (CEO) of
TreeHouse, LLC, the company that owns and operates Nicky Blaine’s. Nicky Blaine’s is
a martini and cigar bar located just off Monument Circle at 20 North Meridian Street. He
said that the proposed ordinance would literally put his establishment out of business;
therefore, the owners, customers, suppliers, and employees take this proposed
ordinance very seriously. He said that their plea is straightforward: “Please do not use
the power of government to wipe out a growing Indianapolis business and source of
employment and enjoyment for so many of your constituents and fellow citizens.” The
signage of Nicky Blaine’s clearly identifies the establishment as a martini and cigar bar,
and only adults over the age of 21 are permitted to enter the premises, including
employees, which they call associates. Everyone who therefore enters Nicky Blaine’s
knows that alcohol will be served and cigars will be smoked. The food served at Nicky
Blaine’s is best described as appetizers, and people do not come to this establishment
for dinner. Their customers come to Nicky Blaine’s to relax with a beverage, have
conversation, listen to good jazz music, and if they care to, smoke a cigar or cigarette.
If anyone walked into their establishment and was surprised to find someone smoking, it
would be reminiscent of a scene in “Casablanca,” where the police chief is “shocked” to
find gambling going on in Humphrey Bogart’s casino. If martinis and cigars are not to a
person’s liking, they can and should walk on by Nicky Blaine’s. He said that Nicky
Blaine’s opened in 1998 in the old King Cole restaurant building and established a
thriving business as an upscale nightclub for downtown Indianapolis. They took a big
risk in doing so, but their business became so popular, that they moved across the
street to the Guarantee Building and doubled their square footage. Even increasing
space, they still have a line outside on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, and business
continues to grow. Nicky Blaine’s invested over $750,000 of their own money, not
borrowing a dime, to completely renovate the downstairs of their current building,
including every technique to improve air circulation and air quality. He said that Nicky
Blaine’s spent $35,000 for the best air circulation system on the market. This system is
serviced monthly and the air is changed seven times an hour. They have done
everything they can do to reduce the amount of smoke in their establishment, but there

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 4
are still times when those who cannot stand smoke may be uncomfortable. He said that
the sale of cigars represents 12% of Nicky Blaine’s total annual revenue, and they are
the largest seller of cigars in the state of Indiana. They sold $150,000 of tobacco
products in 2004. He said that if smoking were prohibited in their establishment, they
could not make up those sales in alcohol and food. He said that Nicky Blaine’s appeals
to a very narrow range of customers who enjoy the total experience of relaxation,
conversation, an adult beverage, good jazz, and perhaps a cigarette or cigar. Banning
smoking in their establishment would be like removing balls and pins from a bowling
alley and expecting them to make up lost revenue by selling more beer and adding
more pinball machines. The company is a one-establishment business, is locally
owned, and succeeds or fails on the success or failure of Nicky Blaine’s. If this proposal
were to be enacted, they would have to consider shutting down on Meridian Street and
moving across the 96th Street line into Hamilton County to re-create the market there.
Mr. Robertson said that testimony at the first hearing indicated that this ordinance was
trying to protect employees, and not necessarily customers. He said that their
associates are the “cream of the crop” of the Indianapolis hospitality industry. They are
extremely talented, well-educated, well-trained individuals who could get a job at any
hotel or restaurant in the city. There is very low turnover at Nicky Blaine’s, but when
there is an opening, there are dozens and dozens of applicants waiting for that position.
Their full-time servers can make up to $35,000 and bartenders can make up to $70,000.
Nicky Blaine’s offers a full benefits package, including medical, dental, disability and life
insurance. The best help this Committee could be to Nicky Blaine’s employees is to not
put them out of business. He said that this proposal does exempt certain businesses,
and there is ample precedent across the country to exempt businesses such as theirs.
He asked that the Council consider the consequences to Nicky Blaine’s if Proposal No.
45, 2005 is enacted in its current form.
Buffalo Wild Wings - Mike DeWeese
Mike DeWeese, owner of Buffalo Wild Wings downtown and owner of four Dick’s
Bodacious Barbecue franchises, two of which are in Marion County, stated that two of
his restaurants choose to be non-smoking and the other three have smoking in their bar
areas. He is an avid non-smoker, is allergic to cigarette smoke, and has three small
children that he does not allow around cigarette smoke. However, he can take his
family to Buffalo Wild Wings without subjecting them to cigarette smoke because there
is a non-smoking section with separately ventilated air. He said that this is a matter of
freedom, and he has friends who are fighting for freedom in Iraq who have e-mailed him
that they cannot wait to come home and have a beer, a cigarette and some wings in his
establishment. To tell them that they cannot do so is incomprehensible to him. He said
that he is tired of government telling business owners what they can and cannot do,
thus taking away their freedoms.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 5
Outback Steakhouse - John Benjamin
John Benjamin, representative for Outback Steakhouse who has been in the restaurant
business for 21 years, stated that all of his restaurants originally had no separate nonsmoking sections. However, their customers demanded a non-smoking section, and
they complied. He said that in both Fort Wayne and Bloomington, the smoking bans
greatly affected their restaurants, and they have not recovered. Anyone who owns a
business in Marion County, especially those that border the County line, will be put at
an unfair disadvantage. Smokers will go over the County line and tax dollars will be
lost. Twenty-five percent of their current clientele are smokers. He oversees 17
restaurants, and the majority of their smoking sections are only in the bar areas. He
said that the Council should let the customers decide what restaurants should offer.
General Hotels - Tim Worthington
Tim Worthington, vice chairman of General Hotels, stated that they own and operate six
hotels in Indianapolis and operate the Chanteclair Restaurant. He said they do have
some non-smoking areas in their restaurants, and some bar areas that allow smoking
throughout, with some that have non-smoking areas. He said that when the Formula 1
Race was here last year, they put up a cigar and martini bar on a hotel floor at the
airport and sold $2,500 in cigars in two days. Their hotel at the airport actually has all
public areas designated as non-smoking, and like most hotels has 25% of their rooms
allotted for smokers. He said that totally eliminating the right to smoke is
unconstitutional. He said that he currently serves on the Chamber of Commerce
Smoking Task Force, and he has provided a copy of their recommendations to the
Committee (attached as Exhibit E). He said that while he is not a smoker, he is an
American and thus lives in a free society, and those who want to smoke should be
allowed to do so. He said that their employees do not seem to mind the smoke
because they are being allowed to make a good living. He said that it is more of a
freedom issue, and he hopes there are some compromises that can be made with this
proposal.
Scotty's Brewhouse - Scotty Wise
Scotty Wise, owner of Scotty’s Brewhouse locations in Muncie, Bloomington and West
Lafayette, said that he serves on the Hospitality Association and supports the
association in opposing this ban. However, all three of his restaurants are smokefree,
one mandated by the City of Bloomington. He said that he is a non-smoker, but does
not profess to be a smart man, a doctor, or a legislator. He is, however, a proud
American, and what he loves about this country is the capitalist society of competition.
He said that in his business, there is one thing that dictates how he does business, and
that is money. He said that people will vote with their dollars and their patronization. If
they do not want to eat at a smokefree restaurant, then they will go to one where
smoking is allowed. If he finds that he loses customers because of his decisions, he
can then make changes to accommodate the market. He said that he does not need

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 6
the government telling him how to run his business. He asked if this proposal goes
forward, then what will be the next element government will try and regulate. Will they
then tell him what kind of oil in which he should fry his food?
Hall's Castleton Grill – Don “Bud” Hall
Bud Hall, owner of the Castleton Grill on 82nd Street and several restaurants in Fort
Wayne, said that at one time he owned 15 restaurants in Fort Wayne, but the
smoking ban enacted there in 1998 has caused him to close three restaurants, with
two more in danger of closing. He said that the Fort Wayne ordinance did allow for
smoking areas that were sealed off in a restaurant. The restaurants that will be
hurt the most by this type of regulation will be the small, independently owned
restaurants. He said that all of the restaurants he had to close were neighborhood
restaurants and he could not afford to divide these restaurants into separate rooms
because of the layout of the buildings. He said that he employed 40 to 50 people
at each of these restaurants, with sales of approximately $1 million a year for each
establishment. All of these restaurants had been in operation for over 20 years, but
sales were down eight to twelve percent, and it was too difficult to make up that
difference. He said that the restaurant business is fragile and little things make an
establishment sink or swim, such as cleanliness, service, chuckholes in the parking
lot, and providing smoking areas. Restaurants that are open 24 hours a day
experience an influx of smoking customers after bars close early in the morning.
Sunday mornings after church hours, these same restaurants receive mostly nonsmoking customers. He said that five of his restaurants had bars and it was easy
to seal off the bar areas. He has friends who have invested their life savings into
their business and a regulation like this can kill them. He said that Indianapolis is a
great town, and this ordinance will hurt the independent restaurants that give this
city its flavor and personality.
Mo's...A Place for Steaks - Jeremiah Hammon
Mr. Livengood said that Mr. Hammon was present earlier but had to leave
because his restaurant received a large party of 150 people and he needed to
attend to that situation.
Chair Mansfield said that the Councillors may have some questions to ask of
those who have testified so far. She stated that since the concept of the military
fighting for freedom was brought up, she would like to say that she is a mother of
a United States Marine who is currently serving in Iraq. She said that while she
encourages the passion that is shown to protect the rights of military personnel,
her son did not get the opportunity to vote because he was insuring that the
Iraqis’ right to vote was protected. If anyone therefore wants to fight for the rights
of those who fight to keep this country free, she would encourage them to fight
for servicemen’s rights to vote.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 7
Councillor Keller said that he would like someone to address the public health
issue of employees. He said that in his district, there is a 10% unemployment
rate, and most of the people who work in bars and restaurants in his
neighborhood do not have the option to say they will not work in a place where
smoking is allowed. Mr. Hall said that most employees come in knowing the
environment in which they are going to be working. He said that with regards to
employees who are sensitive to smoke, he accommodates their wishes and lets
them work in the non-smoking areas. He said that during debates surrounding
the Fort Wayne ordinance, a study was done with non-smokers who worked in
smoking sections, and there were no negative toxins found in their bloodstream.
Mr. DeWeese said that he has three servers who are non-smokers and he asked
them where they preferred to work. These individuals preferred to work in the
smoking section, because they believed they could make more money with these
customers.
Mr. Robertson said that the majority of Nicky Blaine’s associates smoke and they
are concerned that if this ordinance is passed, they will have no place downtown
to smoke. He said that they offer health insurance and have done everything
they can architecturally and design-wise to move air through their establishment.
He said that their employees do not have a lot of sickness, make a good living,
and are happy working in this environment.
Councillor Oliver said that saying that the government is intruding on private
rights is not really accurate, as the government is made up of ordinary citizens
like everyone who has spoken this evening, and this is an issue of health and
safety. He said that they are trying to find a middle ground to protect 80% of the
public that does not smoke. There are many laws people do not like that help
protect the health and safety of citizens, such as 25-mile-per-hour speed limits in
school zones and no dumping allowed in the river. He said that the goal of this
proposal is not to run any company out of business or create new smokefree
businesses. However, they need to find a balance. He said that movies like
“Casablanca” glamorize smoking and it seems like the American way to many
people, but is still a health hazard. It should be a personal choice, however, and
not harm those that choose not to smoke.
Mr. Worthington said that he agrees that a compromise is needed and a good
balance needs to be found. He said that Proposal No. 45, 2005 is too strict and
will put many independent owners out of business.
Mr. Livengood agreed and said that they are not against every regulation to
guard health and safety, but feel people should have the choice to enter an
establishment that allows smoking. He said that restaurants are not against all
regulations and government acts. He said that they welcomed the new food

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 8
codes that helped them to provide safe food to customers. He said that they
support regulations that are fair and provide choices for people.
Councillor Bowes said that this proposal offers some good debate, and as a trial
lawyer, he loves asking questions and promoting good debate. He said that Mr.
Livengood used words like “unwarranted and unnecessary intrusion” and that the
proposal being offered was to “protect preferences” of some people. He said that
Mr. Livengood repeatedly emphasized that there was no need for this type of
government intrusion. He asked if Mr. Livengood can tell the Committee that
there is no health risk from second hand smoke at all. Mr. Livengood said that in
his judgment, this is not a debate about health. While he is sure smoking is bad
for one’s health and is why he quit smoking, there is still some debate about the
effects of second-hand smoke, but it probably is not good for one’s health.
However, he believes it does not matter to this debate, as there are plenty of
places people can go without second-hand smoke, without having to regulate
privately owned businesses. Councillor Bowes said that Mr. Livengood said he
could not refute the fact that second-hand smoke is harmful to health, therefore it
is debatable that there is a need for the Council to take action because of that
health hazard. He added that it was testified there would be a harm to the
hospitality industry if this proposal is passed, but industry-wide it would probably
not be a harm that was noticeable. Mr. Livengood said that it will not put the
hospitality industry out of business, but there will be an economic impact on
individual properties that currently allow smoking, and on segments of the
industry.
Councillor Bowes said that he hopes people do vote with their wallets and that
those 72% of Marion County residents who do not smoke will not patronize those
establishments that are putting these carcinogens and health hazards in the air.
He asked Mr. Benjamin if by saying that his Bloomington Outback Steakhouse
has not recovered from the smoking ban, that the store has actually closed. Mr.
Benjamin said that they have not yet given up the fight and it is a matter of
nickels and dimes. He said that although 72% of residents may not smoke, they
also want the 28% that do smoke to visit their restaurants. Councillor Bowes
said that Mr. Benjamin said 25% of their customers smoke and others make the
choice whether or not to come into their restaurant. He asked if those who come
into a restaurant that allows smoking are fully informed about how dangerous
second-hand smoke is and that it kills 250 and hospitalizes almost 1,000 Marion
County residents each year. He asked if they are informed that Marion County
spends $16.7 million to treat the diseases caused by second-hand smoke. Mr.
Benjamin said that this is not a question his customers are asking and he has
never had that conversation with any customer. He said that customers can go
to a non-smoking establishment any day of the week, as there are plenty of them
available, but they choose to come to his restaurant, where there is a smoking
section. He said he does not know if they are educated on the issue of secondhand smoke.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 9
Councillor Bowes said that Mr. DeWeese testified that soldiers serving in Iraq are
looking forward to coming back and having a drink and cigarette at his
establishment. He asked if the laws already do not dictate how much one of
these soldiers can drink. He said if they get behind a wheel after drinking too
much at an establishment, they would be committing a crime. He said that it
seems the government has a right to impose a cut-off on legal substances when
they become too dangerous to someone else. Mr. DeWeese said that he does
not see the connection. He said that he does not smoke, but went to Nicky
Blaine’s with some of his employees recently. Although it was too smoky for him,
it is a great place and they should stay in business because they are serving a
certain clientele.
Councillor Talley said that the Committee has invited these individuals to the
meeting this evening to share their views and opinions on this proposal and it is
important for Committee members not to lecture, but simply gather the
information and use it to make informed decisions.
Councillor Bowes said that he fully respects everyone’s viewpoint and this is an
important debate in which everyone should be allowed to participate. He said
that it is a difficult decision, as they are charged with protecting a governmental
system focused on individual rights. He said that his law practice is based on
individual rights. However, there is a place for government to step in, such as
with the food quality regulations. He said that his questions are designed to get
more information to help the community make the right decision, and he does not
pretend that his views should be the views that carry the day.
Councillor Bowes stated that many have said this proposal goes too far, yet the
majority respect some of the things the Committee is trying to do with this
ordinance. He said that Mr. Robinson asked the Committee to find a way to
include an exemption for an organization like his to provide service for that
segment of the population that wants to have a nice cigar and martini in a social
setting. He said that the question is how the legislative body can define that
exemption so that it is fair to all. How does the Committee balance that
exception against the public health issue and without showing favoritism to one
establishment over another? Mr. Robinson said that he would be more than
happy to offer formal proposals for exemption language. He said that this is so
important to the continuation of his business, that he could not offer such
language off the top of his head this evening.
Councillor Plowman said that he is not a voting member of this Committee, but
this issue is important to him, and he feels it is a shame that the Council is trying
to infringe on individual rights of businesses and taxpayers in Marion County. He
said that with the Mayor threatening to lay off policemen and firefighters, courts
and judges dealing with an overcrowded jail, and an 8% increase in crime in the

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 10
townships that the Council would have more important things to do with their time
than put businesses out of business and take tax dollars away from Marion
County. He said that compromise was mentioned, and he believes that every
aspect should be explored, because once the government gets inside, they never
give up. He said that the Council needs to be careful what they do with this
issue, as it will put some people out of business and cause hardships on
providing for their families. If this is the most important issue the Council has to
address, then vote on it this evening and get on with what is really important.
Councillor Bradford said that someone needs to prove to him that second-hand
smoke actually causes death. He said that he does not know of any death
certificate or coroner’s report that lists second-hand smoke as the cause of
death. Chair Mansfield said that the next meeting will feature presentations from
a medical perspective, and there will be ample opportunity to ask that question of
those presenters. Councillor Bradford said that he is a restauranteur, and
although he has a no-smoking policy inside his establishment, smoking is
allowed outside on his deck. He said that government could decide that red
meat and sugar is bad because they lead to heart attacks, and try to ban those
as well. He added that his district, as well as Chair Mansfield and Councillor
Schneider’s districts, are just six minutes from the Hamilton County line.
Property owners in this area got hit with huge tax increases, and this would be
just another concern that would cause businesses and commerce to leave
Marion County, especially in his district. He said that even though 72% of the
population may not smoke, they still go to these establishments. He said that
Outback Steakhouse is a national chain. Their profits can fluctuate and they can
shift dollars to other places with shortfalls. He said that he contacted a friend
who does a lot of work with the Alcoholic Beverage Commission, and
approximately 10% of all alcoholic beverage retailers and hotels are in Marion
County. If those would have to go smokefree, that is a big percentage of the 92
counties, and the losses could be astronomical. He said that many of these
establishments have to pay tobacco licenses, so they already pay fees. He said
that this ordinance goes after an industry that invests tons of money into the
economy by changing the rules on them in the middle of the game. He said that
while some of the national chains may lose some business, the small privately
owned businesses will be the hardest hit if this ordinance is passed. He said that
these owners pay sales tax and food and beverage tax, and if people decide to
go home for an extra drink in order to smoke, there will be a loss of tax revenue.
He said that these people work 60 to 80 hours a week and invest so much time
and effort into their businesses and the community. He said that he does not
support this ordinance.
Mr. Livengood said that with regards to a compromise, he believes the only
compromise is to do nothing and let the marketplace determine changes that
need to be made.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 11
Councillor Bowes stated that Councillor Plowman said that the Council had other
things to focus on that were more important. As an employee of the Sheriff’s
Department, Councillor Plowman is concerned with public safety, and Councillor
Bowes agrees that public safety is the Council’s first priority. He said that in
2003, there were 102 homicides in Marion County. According to peer review
statistics, almost 250 people die every year in Marion County due to secondhand smoke-related diseases. He said that this is therefore still an important
issue.
Councillor Bowes asked Mr. Worthington what kind of ideas he has to craft a
compromise to help protect citizens’ health, yet act fairly with all businesses. Mr.
Worthington said that he is a non-smoker, but is also a businessman and enjoys
doing business in a free society. He said that he cares about employees, and he
asks them to smoke outside. He said that this ordinance is simply too strict, and
it will put establishments like Nicky Blaine’s out of business, and it is not fair to
them or to those who wish to smoke in a social atmosphere. He said that Ireland
is a smokefree country, and other cities have adopted this ban, but are not doing
as well as reported. He said that non-smoking areas have increased in
restaurants because the market has demanded it, and that is the way it should
be and this should be a market-driven issue.
Councillor Bowes said that he is willing to find a compromise that works, but he is
very concerned about the health of the community. He said that some of Mr.
Hall’s businesses suffered because they did not have the wherewithal to make
the structural changes required by the new smokefree ordinance in Fort Wayne.
He said that this proposal does not allow for those kind of structural differences,
and this law would affect both small and large businesses the same way. Mr.
Hall said that there will still be a loss of business. A large national chain will
survive, but a small business cannot absorb losses like a large chain. He said
that when small businesses go out of business, then customers will flow to the
national chains eventually. He said that without banning smoking in restaurants
and bars across the nation or banning smoking altogether, this type of ordinance
will simply beat up the small businesses. He said that the Indianapolis ordinance
does not allow a sealed room, but he was just explaining the problems they faced
when going smokefree in Fort Wayne. He said that there are many costly
dynamics to the restaurant business that no one but a business owner would
completely understand, and this is a very complicated issue.
Mr. Hall asked if any input was sought from restauranteurs when this ordinance
was drafted. Councillor Bowes stated that these forums were designed to
include public input from both the industry and individual citizens. Mr. Hall said
that small business owners cannot be ignored and he would love to meet with the
Committee to work out some compromises because he fully understands this
business. He said that when the government begins to mess with a very
complicated issue without all the facts, it will kill some of these small business

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 12
owners. Councillor Bowes said that this is the value of the governmental
process, as it is a great way for the Council to learn and make an informed
decision.
Councillor Bowes thanked all for their comments and said that the debate is not
served however, when extremes and inflammatory language is used, such as, “It
will kill them.” Although the loss of a business is very debilitating, such
statements diminish the lives of people who actually lose their lives to secondhand smoke and cannot live to fight another day and are not given another
chance. Mr. Hall said that most individuals that die of second-hand smokerelated diseases are exposed at greater levels and more prolonged terms than
what they would get for an occasional meal in a restaurant. Most of these
incidents are caused in the home where a family member smokes on a regular
basis.
Councillor Keller said that the way the Council usually does business is to put an
issue on the table and hold hearings before reaching a final decision. He said
that there will be six hearings on this ordinance, and Committee members will
stay as long as needed to listen and give this issue the attention it deserves.
Councillor Bradford stated that the Chamber of Commerce has provided a
position statement on this proposal, and one of the items refers to “a smoking
ban in establishments which permit customers under the age of 18 to enter the
establishment.” He said that the problem he has with that is that an entity like the
Slippery Noodle Inn, which is a big part of the convention service for Indianapolis
and has a family room during the day, would no longer be able to offer that
service. He said there are lots of other places in Broad Ripple that are the same.
He said that in establishments where only those over the age of 21 are allowed,
people already know the dangers before they enter. Warnings are written on the
cigarettes and on alcoholic beverages, and it is a choice. However, this
ordinance is way over the top and goes too far.
Councillor Schneider said that in 2002, the Council considered a smoking ban
ordinance that was much less restrictive than this proposal. Three of the
sponsors of the proposal before the Committee this evening are new to the
Council since that time and are not familiar with the history on this issue. The
Council took a very slow path during those discussions and included members of
the hospitality industry in a sub-working group, comprised of much more than just
Council members. This ordinance still failed. He said that he believes
representatives of the hospitality industry should have been involved much
earlier, and he hopes members of this Committee will give credence to what they
have to say.
Chair Mansfield said that the purpose of these hearings is to get substantial input
from all areas affected by this ordinance. She said that the community is in a

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 13
much different place than it was a couple of years ago, and there has been
extensive research into this proposal and many public hearings will be held
before any final recommendation is made to the Council. She said that this is a
very important issue and everyone will be heard.
Mr. Yeagy said that due to the hours these meetings are conducted, many of his
employees cannot attend because they are working. He provided a petition
signed by his employees with their opinions regarding this proposal. He added
that children are more exposed to second-hand smoke outside of the restaurant
environment, and most of this exposure takes place in their own homes from
parents who smoke.
Chair Mansfield thanked those business owners who have spoken and invited
them to stay for further questions at the end of the rest of the presentations. She
said that there will be public forums held on March 30 and April 6, 7, and 14,
2005, so possibly these dates can allow some employees to attend when they
are not working.
Marion County Licensed Beverage Association - Mark Webb
Mark Webb, attorney for the Marion County chapter of the Indiana Licensed Beverage
Association (ILBA), stated that many of their members are bar and tavern owners. He
said that he is not here to discuss smokers’ rights or dispute the health data. They are
asking that the Committee oppose the ordinance for one reason: the fact that it will hurt
their businesses. A smoking ban would cause a decline in customers for many bar
owners. While it may not happen the day after a ban took effect, the loss of profits
would eventually become apparent. A few unprofitable months would force many small
business owners out of business. The national chains may be able to withstand an
adjustment period, but not the small, independently owned family businesses. He said
that these owners know their customers, and every decision they make is geared to
make their customers happy and make their businesses successful. Some of their
members have become non-smoking establishments because that is what their
customers want. Others are scared that their customers will not come back if the
smoking ban is passed. If this ordinance becomes law, these owners will be forced to
become enforcement police, as well as being fined for what might take place within 50
feet of their establishment. He said that some smokers may take their business away
from establishments near the county line to other restaurants or bars outside the county
where smoking is allowed. This ordinance puts restaurant owners in the middle of a
fight between government and the tobacco industry. Mr. Webb showed stacks of
petitions from restaurant owners who oppose the smoking ban. He said that these
businesses are valuable to Indianapolis, providing employment for citizens and
contributing to the tax base. Food and beverage taxes have helped to fund numerous
building projects around the county. Trying to clean the air of Indianapolis on the backs
of these small independent business owners is about as fair as trying to balance the
state budget on the backs of low-paid state employees. Independently owned

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 14
establishments already face tough competition from national chains, and this further
hinders their ability to compete.
Living Room Lounge - Deborah McLaughlin
Deborah McLaughlin, owner of the Living Room Lounge, stated that the establishment
has been located at 934 Pennsylvania since 1967 with four different owners. She said
that she has been a smoker since the age of 16 and is aware of what smoking can do to
herself and those around her. She said that she has made that choice, and no one has
forced her to smoke. She said that she cannot compete with the Nicky Blaine’s or
Slippery Noodle type establishments. The Living Room Lounge is a small business that
survives on a week-to-week basis. She said that the clientele of the Lounge is
extremely eclectic with people that live paycheck to paycheck. Eight out of ten of them
are smokers with almost every table occupied by two or three smokers during the lunch
hour. She said that many after-work customers come there to unwind and have a drink
or cigarette before going home. Late night in the bar, there are many customers who
work in the hospitality industry downtown and come to her establishment to have a drink
and cigarette before going home. If this law passes, she would have to probably cut
half of her staff of 11 employees. Her customers have told her that they would come
less often or not at all if smoking was banned. She said that she would have to cut
entertainment, as well, and does not have a corporate headquarters she can fall back
on to sustain her. Everyone is aware of the health hazards of smoke, but this is about
business and people, and business owners should be allowed to make their own
decisions.
Hogan’s Pub - David Hogan
David Hogan, owner of Hogan’s Pub, said that his establishment has been in operation
since the early 1940’s with different owners. He said that he and his wife have owned
the bar for 8 years and have completely remodeled it. He said that 80% of their patrons
are elderly smokers. He said trying to tell one of his 70-year-old female euchre playing
customers to put down her cigarette would be next to impossible. He said that the pub
has three employees, one of which does not smoke yet works at another bar and
chooses to work in those environments. Their fans and filters are serviced every month,
and it is a very respectable neighborhood place which neighbors enjoy frequenting. He
said that they own the building, the land, and pay the taxes and should therefore have
the right to say what goes on inside the business. He said that at 17 years old, he was
not allowed to drink or buy cigarettes, but his country could send him to the Republic of
Vietnam to be shot twice. He has fought for himself and the rights of others to live in a
free country, and this ordinance would take those freedoms away. He said that if they
have to go smokefree, there is no doubt in his mind he will have to close within a very
short time. If Amtrak closes in the Beech Grove area, almost 640 people will lose their
jobs, which will also affect his establishment, and this is just another factor that will
impact his livelihood.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 15
Chair Mansfield said that she understands the concerns about loss of business, but the
focus of this ordinance is really on the health of employees and their right to have a
clean air environment. She said that the Living Room Lounge has some of the best
burgers and homemade chips in town, as well as excellent staff, but she has to admit
she usually has to purchase carry-out because she cannot handle the smoke. She
asked if business owners have considered that they might gain some new customers by
going smokefree. Ms. Laughlin said that the sales she has between 9:00 p.m. and 3:00
a.m. triples any purchases made before that time. She said that when she passed
around petitions to her customers, out of 90 customers, only two did not sign the
petition. She said that Karaoke on a Friday night is her best business, and most of that
clientele smokes. Chair Mansfield said that there might be many others who would
enjoy Karaoke or other social activities who might come out if they did not have to
contend with the smoke. She said that she is one person who would actually come in
and sit down and eat if the Lounge were smokefree. Ms. Laughlin said that she cannot
rely on the “possibility” of new customers, which may not happen.
Councillor Bradford said that he worked in the field of alcoholic beverages around the
state for almost 20 years. He said that the ordinance already exempts private clubs,
and for many small taverns around the state, these businesses are like a private club.
He said that Knights of Columbus, American Legion, and Moose Lodges have children
in the bar areas and exposed to smoke, and this is allowed because they are a social
club. He said that these taverns are a social club for many, and it is a personal decision
whether a person sits down in an establishment or orders carry-out. He said that these
taverns are the working man’s friend and it is the regular customers who really pay the
bills.
Mr. Webb said that although the argument has been made that more people will come if
the establishment is smokefree, there is no guarantee or evidence to support the
premise that the same number of non-smokers would come in and purchase the same
amount of food and beverage to help these establishments stay solvent. He said that it
is not possible to get a bank loan based on this premise.
Councillor Keller stated that if he owned a small tavern, he would also be scared of this
ordinance and so he understands the fear. He said that in New York State, there are
many upscale establishments in Manhattan, but just as many small neighborhood
taverns in Albany like those represented here this evening. He said that studies have
been done on the effect on all types of businesses. The New York Department of
Finance for the State of New York shows that tax receipts for bars and restaurants are
up 8.7% since the smokefree act. This is not a study done by a health organization or
tobacco company, but by the Department of Finance. He said that there are some
studies that show evidence that there is a bounce back. Though it might be hard to
believe or understand at this stage, he would like owners to keep an open mind and
consider what is going on in other communities.
Indiana Amusement and Music Operators Association - Bill Smythe, President

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 16
and Leslie A. Murphy, Executive Director
Leslie Murphy, executive director of the National Dart Association, stated that the
National Dart Association is headquartered here in Indianapolis and they
represent coin-operated amusement vendors. She said that 90% of their
equipment is located in bars and taverns. From California to New York, from
Florida to Texas, from Columbus, Ohio to Toledo, Ohio, they have heard from
their members the effects of smoking bans on their businesses. Consistently,
there has been a 25 to 30% drop in revenues when smoking bans are enacted.
Three years after the ban in California, for those coin-operated amusement
operators still in business, they are still at a 30% decrease from revenue
experienced before the ban. These operators are typically small family-owned
businesses whose main customers are local neighborhood bars and taverns. If
these close, the operators have to take their equipment and store it in
warehouses if there is nowhere else to place it. Ms. Murphy said that in Florida,
their ordinance allows smoking in establishments where less than 10% of
revenue is due to food sales, so many of these bars close their kitchens to
remain a smoking establishment. The result is that people then drink more and
eat nothing to absorb the alcohol. She said that these businesses also suffer
due to county lines and neighboring counties taking away customers because
they allow smoking. Ms. Murphy said that she is also the executive director of
the Indiana Amusement and Music Operators Association (IAMOA), an
organization for coin-operated amusement businesses. She said that the public
outcry in Toledo, Ohio forced a referendum vote to rescind the full ban because
of the revenue loss.
Bill Smythe, president of IAMOA and owner of four Claude & Annie’s Restaurants
and a coin-operated company called Indy Amusements, stated that he has been
in business since 1977. He said that each member of the Committee should
have received some background material prior to this meeting. He said that most
of the studies referenced on second-hand smoke could be questioned, and there
is equal data opposing the validity of these studies as there is data giving
credence to them. However, since he is not a medical doctor, he can concede
that second-hand smoke is dangerous. However, he cannot concede that
revenues are not affected by smoking bans in this business. He said that he
does not know if only 27% of the population of Marion County smokes, but he
does know that on a Friday or Saturday night, almost 75% of his 300 customers
are smokers. Suggesting that he will replace those 300 customers with nonsmoking customers or keep all of those smokers is simply not accurate. Nonsmokers are not visiting his establishments and this is not a real issue. He stated
that in Toledo, the citizens overrode the decision of the Council and this is good
government in his opinion, when the citizens actually get to make the decisions.
They have statistical data that shows that smoking bans decrease revenue for
coin-operated amusements by 25%, which is directly related to bar and tavern
revenue. A bar is different from a restaurant due to televised sports games,

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 17
darts, pool tables and other amusements offered that are not offered in
restaurants. This would retain customers for a longer period of time than in a
restaurant for a meal. Many will go home to socialize, and these bars and
restaurants will suffer. Mr. Smythe said that he sent information to each
Councillor in whose district his establishments are located, including Councillor
Bowes, and invited these Councillors to meet with him and discuss this ban’s
impact on his business and customers. He got replies from two of the four
Councillors, of which Councillor Bowes was not one who responded. He said
that right after Mayor Bart Peterson was elected the first time, he decided to take
away the personal rights provided to violent video distributors. He said that the
coin operators industry fought that legislation and won a $750,000 settlement. If
businesses do not fight these things on a personal level, the government will
continue to take away more and more freedoms.
Councillor Bowes said that he did receive Mr. Smythe’s invitation for a one-onone meeting, but it is hard for him to accommodate every single person who
wants to meet with him on an issue. That is why they schedule these types of
public forums to hear all sides of the issue. He said that others in attendance
tonight have also called him for one-on-one meetings, such as Mr. Webb, and it
is just not possible to meet all requests as quickly as he would like.
Councillor Oliver said that there is a profit associated with cigarettes, and those
sales affect the economy. Smoking is legal, government sanctioned, subsidized,
and also unfortunately addictive. He said that it his hard to find a middle ground
so that rights of businesses and smokers are not violated, but non-smokers’
health is protected. Mr. Livengood said that many restaurants will not be affected
adversely and will actually benefit because they would like to be smokefree but
are scared to lose business. However, this is not true for all establishments.
While the industry as a whole will probably remain flat, since some prefer
smokefree and many restaurants will flourish, there will be numerous individual
restaurants that will be devastated and will have to close their doors. This is the
danger with government-imposed solutions, because not all businesses are alike,
and these businesses need to have the freedom to respond to the market and
serve their clientele. It is not reasonable to think some of these establishments
can make up 70% of their business with new non-smoking customers. The large
chain restaurants will survive and the small independents will be put out of
business.
Councillor Keller said that a lot of people call him and ask to meet with him
personally on an issue, but he thinks it is very important to hold these public
hearings, which are broadcast live on television and help to get views out to the
public. He said that it is better to have open public meetings on an issue rather
than several small private meetings which are not open to the public.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 18
Chair Mansfield called for public testimony on any of the materials offered this
evening.
Bill Bowes, brother of Councillor Bowes, stated that it seems the biggest concern
is about government intervention and where the line should be drawn. He said
that 21 people died two years ago in a Chicago night club fire because of
violation of safety ordinances. In Rhode Island, 96 people died in another night
club fire because of using pyrotechnics without a permit or sprinkler system. He
added that the September 11th terrorist attack led to better security at airports
and the brawl at the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons basketball game led to
better security measures for players. He said that this is the same type of
challenge with second-hand smoke exposure. The community and Council need
to work together to come up with a good balance for protection. He said that Mr.
Livengood emphasized that there was no need for the ordinance, but as a
customer at many of these restaurants, he is bothered by the smoke and spends
less time there than he would if they were smokefree. All of those who testified
said that they are not medical experts, so if it is left up to them as to how smoking
sections are separated from non-smoking, they will not be able to make these
decisions as could experts who know the true effects. Mr. Livengood said that
this is not a medical decision. The decision is not made by a restaurant owner,
but by the customer. If the customers want a restaurant to go smokefree, they
will go smokefree, but the decision should be driven by customer choices. Mr.
Bowes said that this places the burden on patrons to be medical experts. If the
City got rid of government intervention on fire codes and water quality, would the
patrons then have to be experts on these issues in order for restaurant owners to
make decisions? Mr. Livengood said that customers support fire and building
codes, and he has never opposed these types of actions by the government. He
said that there is no doubt that individuals participate in personal activities that
are not safe, but the things that go on behind the scenes that affect customer
safety are appropriate for government intervention. As to the ambience or
atmosphere of a restaurant, this should be left up to the business owners.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Oliver left at 9:45 p.m.]
Kelly Alley, citizen and member of Smoke Free Indy, asked what restaurants and
bars have done to survey the 75% of non-smokers like her who want to come to
these establishments but do not want to put their health at risk in order to do so.
Mr. DeWeese said that this is a valid question. He has a large non-smoking
section in his restaurant and did not discriminate when he circulated the petitions.
He has even toyed with the idea of going non-smoking one day a week to see
what it would do to his business, but already knows what it would do.
Dan Drexler, citizen, asked where the survey can be found that references 250
deaths in Marion County annually. Councillor Keller said that the last hearing
presented some of this data, but the county Health Departments track this type of

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 19
information. Councillor Bowes said that the information can be found on the
Marion County Health Department’s web site.
Jerry Carter, citizen, said that he is a non-smoker but likes to eat. He asked why
this Council has the right to choose where he eats and socializes. Chair
Mansfield said that the difference between making choices about food and
smoking is that food choices only affect the individual making the choice, but
smoking affects those sitting in vicinity to the smoker, and second-hand smoke
has a direct and immediate affect on someone else’s health, even though they
may have chosen not to smoke. Mr. Carter said that while he does not disagree,
he should still be allowed to make the decision as to where he goes and whether
or not he minds that a smoker is sitting next to him. He said that he can choose
who is the Mayor, Governor, or President, but should also have basic choices
about where he socializes and with whom. Councillor Bowes said that this is a
very difficult decision, but they must also take into account the viewpoint of nonsmokers and their rights to a healthy environment. Also, they need to make sure
that they are not giving one type of business more freedom or advantage over
another. He said that those who do not smoke are sometimes then left without
choices, because they cannot go to a comedy club or listen to good jazz music
because of the health hazard.
Councillor Bradford said that it is ironic that this ordinance is looking at saving
people, yet a woman can kill a child in Indiana because abortions are legal.
Chair Mansfield said that abortion is not germane to this ordinance and this
subject. Councillor Bradford said that both deal with personal rights, and
abortion does not protect the rights of an unborn child. Chair Mansfield said that
the Council does not have jurisdiction over that issue for Marion County and
therefore it is not germane.
Jenny Wilson, bartender for Loon Lake Lodge in Castleton, said that many of her
customers smoke, but she still enjoys working there. Since she quit smoking six
years ago her health has improved, but since beginning work in a bar four years
ago, her health has not declined any. Therefore, she does not believe working
40 hours a week in an environment where smoking is permitted has had any
adverse effect on her health. She asked if there any solid reports on health
effects of second-hand smoke on employees. Chair Mansfield said that the past
meeting relayed a lot of this information, and Ms. Wilson can get that information
on the Council website or from the Council office, or she could contact Smoke
Free Indy for further information.
Joe Wilson, owner of two bars in Indianapolis, said that he is a non-smoker but it
is obvious some of the Committee members are so opposed to smoking that they
cannot make an objective decision, and they should be replaced by people with
more open minds. Chair Mansfield said that Committee members have sat and

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 20
listened to three and a half hours of testimony and appreciate all comments and
will take them into consideration.
Max Garrett, co-owner of one of the largest dart bars in Indianapolis, asked how
much consideration will be given to these signed petitions. He has had 88% of
his patrons tell him they will not visit his establishment as often if they go nonsmoking. Chair Mansfield said that Committee members will consider all
information they are given and will hold several more hearings, including four
public forums to get all the input they can before making a decision.
Matt Hall, Hall’s Restaurant Group, said that there are so many reasons why a
customer comes back to a restaurant. Part of the nostalgia about a place like
The Living Room Lounge is the atmosphere, even though people may be
indulging in things that are not good for their health. For this Council to decide
what they indulge in is questionable. Mr. Hall added that Councillor Bowes said
he wanted all the input he could get and admitted to receiving messages from
both Mr. Smythe and Mr. Webb, yet when Mr. Webb got up to speak, Councillor
Bowes left the room. Councillor Talley added that this meeting will be replayed
12 to 14 times on Channel 16, and all Councillors will watch those meetings and
receive written minutes of the meeting. If a Councillor has to leave the room,
they will still make sure they are informed on the subject. He said that all of
these members except for himself, who is retired, have other jobs and many
demands on their time, but they take their position very seriously and will review
the input over and over again.
Diana Raymond, citizen, said that this Council should not pass a law that says
smokers do not have rights to smoke in their own vehicles. She said smokers
pay the excise taxes, yet they are being told they do not have their own rights.
She said that she picked up smoking after a traumatic time in her life and it helps
her to relieve stress. She said that it should be her choice where she smokes,
because she is a considerate smoker and cares about her neighbor’s health.
Councillor Bowes stated that this ordinance does not prevent individuals from
smoking in their own vehicles. It only prohibits individuals from smoking in a
company-owned vehicle provided by an employer where there are occupants
other than the driver. Ms. Raymond said that in July, her employer is going to
ban smoking and will close the designated area for smoking, and employees will
not even be allowed to go into their own vehicle on the property and smoke.
Councillor Bowes said that this is not something this ordinance is doing, but is a
decision of Ms. Raymond’s private employer. Ms. Raymond said that it will get to
the point where they cannot even stand on a public sidewalk and smoke.
Councillor Bradford said that under this current ordinance, there is no provision
for a special smoking room in any establishment, and smoking is only allowed 50
feet from an establishment. Hospitals are making their own decisions to ban
smoking, and Community North Hospital has even put a mile radius smoking ban

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
March 10, 2005
Page 21
which includes places that are not even property owned by them. He said that
he agrees that this ordinance is way too far-fetched when a person cannot
smoke in their own vehicle if they own a catering business and an employee
might ride with them to an event. He added that this ordinance does not even
allow smoking on a public golf course, while a private golf course is exempt.
Jeremy Townsley, citizen, asked with regard to the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), how the rights of those with asthma are being protected when they
are prohibited from working in these establishments, as contrasted with the rights
of employers and smokers. Councillor Bowes said that there was no testimony
offered on this issue tonight, but it is a very important issue and employers
should be concerned about that. There is a federal law that requires employers
to provide reasonable accommodation to people with disabilities who are
otherwise able to work. He said that this is another piece of the puzzle that
should be considered. Councillor Bradford stated that for those employees in the
medical industry, there are certain types of latex that are also harmful to those
who have asthma, so in considering disabilities there are many areas that could
be opened up for lawsuits.
Patrice Adams, citizen, said that the comment was made that smokers would
leave a bar if they could not smoke. She said that people cannot smoke on
airplanes, but smokers survive for five to ten hours on a plane without smoking,
yet they do not think they can sit in a bar for two hours without smoking.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
Chair Mansfield said that Proposal No. 45, 2005 was postponed at the last meeting, and
it was communicated that the Committee would try to decide on a firm date for action
before this meeting. She said that she would recommend action on the proposal be set
for the May 5th meeting.
Councillor Talley moved, seconded by Councillor Bowes, to “Postpone” Proposal No.
45, 2005 until May 5, 2005. The motion carried by a vote of 4-1, with Councillor
Bradford casting the negative vote. Councillor Bradford said that he would prefer to just
vote the proposal up or down this evening.
Chair Mansfield stated that the next meeting is scheduled for March 24, 2005, and will
feature presentations from a medical perspective. There being no further business, and
upon motion duly made, the meeting was adjourned at 10:16 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

AM/ag

Angela Mansfield, Chair



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

April 14, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:15 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

9:55 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Jim Bradford
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS

AGENDA
PUBLIC FORUM
Members of the public will be invited to express their
views regarding the proposed smokefree air act.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, April 14, 2005 at Shortridge Middle School located at 3401 North Meridian
Street. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. with the
following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Greg Bowes, Jim Bradford, Susie Day,
Scott Keller, William Oliver, and Steve Talley. Councillors Sanders and Plowman were
also in attendance.
PUBLIC FORUM
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a
recommendation is made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for
action until May 5, 2005.)
Chair Mansfield welcomed everyone to Shortridge Middle School and thanked those
associated with the school for allowing them to use the facility. She stated that before
she opens the meeting for public testimony, James Wolff, Director of the Indiana
University Public Opinion Lab, will offer a brief presentation regarding recent surveys
conducted related to the smokefree issue.
Mr. Wolff stated that he was asked by Smoke Free Indy to conduct a series of surveys
to assess public opinion about smoking, secondhand smoke, and support of a
smokefree ordinance. He said that they created eight surveys and conducted random
samples of 600 adults from all ages, races and genders in Marion County and
surrounding counties. The margin of error for these surveys is approximately four
percent. In Marion County, 24% of adults surveyed were smokers, with the highest
percentage of smokers in Shelby County at 29%. He said that in Marion County about
three-fourths of those people surveyed already work in a smokefree workplace and 88%
of the adults agree that Marion County workers should be protected from secondhand
smoke. He said even among smokers, two-thirds of them also agreed that workers
should be protected from secondhand smoke. He said that 87% of those surveyed
agreed that restaurants would be healthier for customers and employers if they were
smokefree. He said that two-thirds of the smokers also agreed with that opinion. Of
those surveyed, 60% agree that exposure to secondhand smoke is a very serious
health hazard. Mr. Wolff said that three-fourths of adults feel that the rights of
customers and employees to breathe smokefree air is more important than the rights of
smokers to smoke. He said that two-thirds of Marion County adults surveyed support
smokefree restaurants. Those surveyed were asked about their eating-out habits and
about 52% said they would go out to eat the same amount as they do now if the

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 2
smokefree ordinance was passed. Only 17% said they would go out less often, and
30% said they would go out more often if Indianapolis went smokefree. Therefore, the
surveys conducted show that the majority of the public supports smokefree restaurants
and would actually increase business if this ordinance was passed. He said that there
was no indication that passage of the proposal would have a negative impact on
restaurants in Marion County.
Councillor Bradford asked if the survey included any questions asking the public if they
would support the government telling someone how to operate their business. Mr. Wolff
said that this question was not included. Councillor Bradford asked with all these
wonderful results, why are restaurants not already smokefree if it is what the public
wants. Chair Mansfield stated that these questions are outside of the scope of the
survey that was done. Mr. Wolff added that this study was simply to garner public
opinion about a smokefree possibility, and other questions would have had to have
been asked to get this type of information.
Councillor Bowes asked what Mr. Wolff did to break down the information as to how one
area of the County might have a different viewpoint than another area. Mr. Wolff said
that they purchased a random sample from a firm that specializes in demographics to
insure that the final sample was representative of an overall view of Marion County and
included quite a diverse group.
Chair Mansfield stated that the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce has taken a
position on the proposal and is here to explain that position to the Committee.
Mark Fisher, business advocacy manager for the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce,
introduced members of the Chamber’s board of directors Bob Brody and Tim
Worthington, and stated that they will speak as to the Chamber’s position on Proposal
No. 45, 2005. Mr. Brody stated that he is the president and chief executive officer of St.
Francis Hospital and Health Centers and serves on the Chamber’s board of directors.
He stated that a task force was created to discuss the effect of Proposal No. 45, 2005
on local businesses. After discussing the issue in an open and honest manner, a policy
position was devised and unanimously ratified by the board of directors. He provided a
copy of the Chamber’s position to Committee members (attached as Exhibit A) and read
from the statement, which supports the ban with limitations. Mr. Brody detailed the
changes they would like to see to the proposal. Mr. Worthington, vice chairman of
General Hotels Corporation, shared that hotels are required to provide 75% of their
rooms as non-smoking. He said that the market and population will eventually decide
when and where an establishment should be smokefree, and most of the restaurants in
his hotels are smokefree because of the market demand. He said that he agrees that it
is important to protect children from secondhand smoke, but adults know the risks and
should be allowed to make their own decisions in establishments where children are not
allowed. Mr. Worthington said that Proposal No. 45, 2005 is probably the toughest nonsmoking bill he has seen in this country, and he asked the Committee to consider the
compromise the Chamber is offering.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 3
Chair Mansfield said that she has concerns about the suggestion that the ban only be
placed on establishments that allow customers under the age of 18 to enter. She said
that there are factories, offices, and other types of businesses that allow employees at
the age of 18, but these workers should also be protected. Mr. Fisher said that they
realize secondhand smoke is a health problem, but 18 is the legal adult age, and
therefore if it is a legal activity, a legal adult should be able to make their own decision.
Chair Mansfield said that there may be adults in the business that make an adult
decision to smoke which affects another adult who needs the employment but does not
have a choice about the decision. Mr. Fisher said that when it is a legal activity, adults
should be allowed to make adult decisions for themselves.
Councillor Bowes asked how much the Chamber has taken into consideration the
impact of secondhand smoke on the co-workers who do not smoke. He said in a
company where 72 people are non-smokers and 28 are smokers, how do the nonsmokers’ rights factor into the Chamber’s recommendations to protect those workers.
Mr. Fisher said that most businesses have specific smoking areas and the majority of
workspace is smokefree. He said that the issue is when government regulations are
being imposed on free enterprise. Mr. Worthington said that the Chamber did take this
into consideration when making their recommendations.
Councillor Keller said that the Committee has heard a lot of testimony from bar and
tavern owners. He said they have not really heard from other businesses such as hair
salons or offices, and he asked why the Chamber is simply not recommending
exemptions for bars and taverns who have testified there will be an economic impact,
instead of all places over the age of 18. Mr. Fisher said that the Chamber represents all
kinds of businesses and is not considering just bars, taverns and restaurants. He said
that they have members that would support the full ban as written and also have
members who would oppose any type of ban. Through their task force process, they
have found their position to be the best solution for all their members. Councillor Keller
asked if the signage posting requirement recommended would include both employees
and customers, so that both employees and customers know what to avoid if they have
particular health issues. Mr. Fisher said that it does, and if the establishment is nonsmoking, employees would not be able to smoke, either.
Councillor Bradford said that it is his understanding that Mr. Worthington has changed
many of his establishments and made the decision to go smokefree on his own and was
not told by government to do so. Mr. Worthington said that this is correct. Councillor
Bradford said that he understands some concerns about raising the age of smoking
establishments to 21 instead of 18, but 18 is the legal age for a person to work in a bar
or many over-21 establishments. Although they cannot serve alcohol, an 18-year-old
can perform in a band, bus tables, park cars, or serve as a hostess. He said that this is
State law. Mr. Fisher said that this is the reason the recommendation was made for 18
years old, because this was taken into consideration.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 4
Councillor Oliver asked for a definition of a cigar bar. Mr. Fisher said that the most
common one he can think of is Nicky Blaine’s Cigar and Martini Bar, and it would be an
exemption intended for an establishment that had a large portion of their sales revenue
due to the sale of tobacco items.
Councillor Bradford stated that according to the amended version of the ordinance that
is before the Committee at this time, a cigar bar would be defined as an establishment
that has 10% or more of their revenue due to the sale of tobacco products. He added
that with regards to the posting requirement, the Restaurant Association already has
decals for businesses to use to identify themselves as smoking or non-smoking, as he
has one in his restaurant.
Councillor Abduallah asked about the exemption for private establishments and clubs
and asked if the workers in these places were taken into consideration. Mr. Fisher said
that most private clubs are not open to the public and are only available for members
paying dues. It is up to these due-paying members to decide whether or not their
establishment should be smokefree or engage in any legal activity, as long as the
general public is not allowed.
Chair Mansfield thanked Mr. Fisher, Mr. Brody, and Mr. Worthington for taking the time
to formulate a position, and for sharing that position with the Committee this evening.
Bruce Hetrick, columnist for the Indiana Business Journal, said that if he had his way,
he would rather not be here this evening. He said that the Chamber, of which he is a
member, claims that the Council must balance human health and corporate profit, and
members of the Council have told him they are tired of this issue and they want it to go
away. He said that this issue is not about statistics or balance, but it is about life and
death. He said that while he empathizes with Council members who are frustrated with
this decision, the people of this community elected them, not profit-minded business
people, to preserve the health of citizens. He is here to speak to this proposal because
one citizen they were supposed to protect cannot be here this evening. That citizen
was his wife of 14 years, stepmother to his twin sons, and a journalistic voice in this
community. Pamela Klein, was a victim of secondhand smoke. Before she could begin
her sixth round of cancer treatment, his wife died from smoker’s cancer, even though
she had never smoked. As an adult, his wife’s job as a journalist led her to many public
places where smoking was allowed. Those who would limit this proposal to apply only
to the protection of children and exempt those over the age of 21 should think about his
wife. He said that while her death certificate does not list secondhand smoke as the
cause, it lists metastatic cancer, for which 90% of all cases are connected to tobacco.
Every law-abiding food and alcohol-serving establishment in this County follows food
and service regulations every day to protect the health and safety of employees and
customers. Any Councillor who thinks that government does not have a role in keeping
bars and restaurants safe, should read the existing 103 pages of regulations on such
establishments. Because of government, restaurants cook chicken to 160 degrees, buy
shatter-resistant light bulbs, and make employees wash their hands with specific

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 5
cleansers. Because of government, employees are prohibited from smoking around a
customer’s food, while customers are free to spew tobacco all over his loved ones and
their food and drink. Indianapolis government, through its KnoZone campaign, is paying
his company to teach people about dangerous air outdoors, while Indianapolis bar
owners and his Chamber of Commerce ask this committee for a compromise. These
compromises say that as long as one is an adult, they are stuck breathing contaminated
air. He asked the Committee to pass this smoking ban now, not two years from now, for
the safety of its citizens. Mr. Hetrick said that he wished those who cherish money so
much could buy him back his sons’ mother and his reason to live. He urged the
Committee to support this proposal in order to save lives.
Chair Mansfield said that over 80 people have signed up to speak this evening, so it is
very important to keep remarks within the allotted time so that every person gets the
opportunity to be heard.
Jeff McKinney, citizen, says that in his work as a firefighter, he is given breathing
apparatus to protect him from smoke inhalation, yet in his workplace, he is subjected to
others’ smoking. He said that he tries to live a healthy life and is in support of this
ordinance. While this is a free country, no one has the right to do something that does
someone else harm. He and his family do not go out to eat much because of exposure
to smoke. He asked Councillors to protect the citizens of Indianapolis and pass this
proposal.
Hester Schultz, citizen, stated that she supports an ordinance to make all workplaces
smokefree. She said that she worked for the City of Indianapolis for over 20 years
trying to make this community a better place to live. She said that she worked to help
meet federal mandates regarding accommodations for those with disabilities. She
thanked the Council for considering this issue.
Dr. David Cook said that as a physician and advocate for public health he has seen
many instances of secondhand smoke exposure resulting in disease and ultimate
death. He said that this proposal is a good thing and he urged the Committee to
support it.
David VanHorn, teacher at Indianapolis Public School #83, stated that he has brought
some fifth-grade students with him this evening that have been studying this issue, and
they would like to share what they have found with the Committee. He introduced
Briana who shared that she called 14 neighborhood businesses to ask them questions
regarding a possible smokefree ordinance. Of the 14 businesses contacted, 10 were
already smokefree, and of the four that were not, only two said they thought their
business would decline if they went smokefree. All 14 businesses agreed that
secondhand smoke is a public health concern. Mr. VanHorn introduced Justis who
shared that he has also learned through research that secondhand smoke is bad for a
person’s health and can ultimately kill a person. Mr. VanHorn recognized Dominique
who said that he would prefer that restaurants be smokefree because he does not like

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 6
to inhale smoke into his lungs while he eats. If a person is a basketball player, the
smoke in their lungs could cause them problems breathing and could result in them
fainting during a game. Mr. VanHorn introduced David who provided Committee
members with some petitions he had gathered from his church with 52 signatures of
individuals who support the smokefree ordinance. Mr. VanHorn stated that these
students participated in a contest to draw a design to represent their group of youth that
support a smokefree Indianapolis. The chosen design is imprinted on the shirts the
youth are wearing this evening. The group of students presented a brief chanted
presentation that supports the smokefree ordinance.
Chair Mansfield thanked the students for their hard work and research into this issue
and thanked them for getting involved in their community at such a young age.
Valeria Hall, representing the St. Florian Center, stated that she supports clean air in
the workplace. She presented the winning drawing done by high school art student
Antonio Turner, a senior at Manual High School, for the Kick-Butts program to help
address the issue of secondhand smoke. She said that youth have a lot to say, and
though they may not be voters today, she asked the Committee to protect their futures.
She said that passing this ordinance may not be the easy thing, but it is the right thing
for children and adults alike.
Marcus McGee, Arlington High School student, and Ricky Murff, Broad Ripple High
School student, stated that they are a part of the Indiana Minority Health Coalition.
They presented Committee members with a petition with 337 signatures of those who
support this ordinance. Mr. Murff said that it should be a personal choice whether or not
a person wants to breathe in smoke or not, and secondhand smoke makes it hard to
breathe for many who have asthma like him.
Jon Sneegas, seventh grader representing VOICE, Indiana’s youth-led movement
against Big Tobacco, said that every year more than 53,000 people die from exposure
to secondhand smoke. He said that secondhand smoke causes asthma, which is a big
problem for children. He said that he is learning to be a musician, and he does not want
to have to be limited in his opportunities to play in a band because of the dangers of
exposure to secondhand smoke. He said that next year, he will be allowed to get a
work permit. Most young people start their work careers in restaurants, but too many
restaurants allow smoking, and a young person should not have to work in a smokefilled environment in order to work. It is proven that children exposed to smoke on a
daily basis are more apt to grow up to be a smoker themselves. He said that he read in
the paper this morning that the Committee might allow restaurants two years to go
smokefree, and he wished his teachers would give him two years to finish a project. He
said that he and his friends would prefer not to breathe smoke for the first two years of
their working careers. Children are told from many sources not to smoke when they
grow up, but now the tables have turned and children are telling adults not to smoke.
He said that too many people die from secondhand smoke and he does not want to be

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 7
one of them. Therefore, he is here this evening to ask the Committee to do the right
thing.
Amelia Muñoz, citizen, stated that she worries about her family members and she wants
the Committee to help her nieces and nephews who work in smoky places because
they do not have a choice. She said that she does not want any family members to be
excluded. Everyone needs to be protected now, not in two years.
Nick Baker, American Cancer Society, thanked the sponsors of Proposal No. 45, 2005
for having the courage and dedication to protect the health of Indianapolis citizens. The
American Cancer Society’s goal is not to put restaurants and bars out of business, but
to put cancer out of business. He said that President Teddy Roosevelt believed that
“government could be a source of help to a powerless public,” and this proposal will
protect workers from irresponsible employers. He said that owning a business is not a
right, but a privilege, and as such, there are parameters a business owner must abide
by on a daily basis.
Juan Pimental, citizen, introduced his family and stated that many Hispanics are afraid
to appear before these hearings for fear of losing their jobs. He asked the Committee to
pass this proposal so that those Latino members of the community will not have to
suffer anymore. He provided the Committee with several petitions signed by other
Hispanic families supporting the ordinance.
LeRoy Hunt, citizen, said that he grew up in a smoking environment. He said that the
majority of people who die from cancer are direct smokers, and only 5% of those who
die of cancer have never smoked. He said that he does not believe there are statistics
to back up the dangers of secondhand smoke.
Carlos Paz, coordinator of the Latino Minority Health Coalition, provided copies of
signed petitions and said that the life and health of people are more important than the
economic interests of a few. He said that thousands of people die every year because
of secondhand smoke. He asked how many people the Committee needs to hear about
dying before doing something about it.
Nicole Oprisu, owner of an over-21 establishment in Broad Ripple, said that in the last
15 years, her business has grown from a small neighborhood tavern to a high-volume
sports bar located in one of the hottest entertainment districts in Indianapolis. One of
the contributors to that growth is Broad Ripple’s ability to offer to its customers
something for everyone. She said that there are places to relax and have a cigarette,
and places to relax without a cigarette. The majority of Broad Ripple restaurants offer
smokefree dining rooms and these are packed every Friday and Saturday night, just as
the many bars and taverns are. She said that market dictation works and shows
business owners how to be successful. She said that those who do not like smoky bars
do not have to visit them or work in them. This is her livelihood and investment and she
should be able to make her own decisions.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 8
John Livengood, Restaurant and Hospitality Association, said that this is not a dollar
issue, but is more an issue of civil liberties. He was asked how he felt about some of
the compromises being offered, but his question is how civil liberties can be
compromised. He said that he has been called a Jeffersonian Democrat, and he
believes that most people, whether Democrat or Republican, understand that this is a
freedom issue. He said that people should make their demands known by flocking to
smokefree restaurants and letting the market decide. He quoted Thomas Jefferson,
saying, “Government governs best that governs least.”
Glenn Pratt, citizen, said that he has spent a lot of time working on serious
environmental issues. Indiana was the first state to ban phosphorous detergents and
still has major problems with nutrients in their reservoirs. The Chamber of Commerce is
now saying a person cannot bring their child to work on special days or hire interns
because there is smoking in the office. Government also governs best when they
protect the unprotected. He said that 30 years ago, Eli Lilly & Company banned
smoking in their facilities because they knew of the dangers. He said that the cost of
human health far outweighs the infringement of the civil rights of people who blow
smoke in others’ faces.
Raymond Guest, Hamilton County resident, said that it is the role of government to
protect the health and safety of its citizens and he supports the ordinance.
Brad Klopfenstein, State Executive Director for the Libertarian Party of Indiana, said that
he is a non-smoker. He said that he visited a small appliance store recently where the
owner and worker were both smoking. He said that these are the kind of honest, hardworking people that will be affected. Passing this law will turn these law-abiding citizens
trying to make a living into criminals. He said that government does not need to dictate
to private business owners what their policies should be.
Joseph Bey, Broad Ripple resident and air quality control specialist, said that he
believes there are ways to clear the air to acceptable safety standards without banning
smoking. He said that the problem is that many people do not use the equipment in
order to do this.
Gene Payne, co-owner of an east-side tavern, read an article from a health
correspondent that stated there was no link between passive smoking and lung cancer.
The World Health Organization that conducted the study would not publish the results,
as the findings are an embarrassment to an organization that has spent years and
thousands of dollars on anti-tobacco campaigns. He said that there is no proof that
secondhand smoke causes cancer.
Patrice Adams, citizen, stated that she is a service worker and it is not fair that her
health and life are valued less than an office worker’s. She said that most people in the
hospitality industry are afraid to speak up for fear of losing their jobs.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 9
Alayna Tatum, citizen, said that she is a voter and strongly supports Proposal No. 45,
2005 because it would create a healthier Indianapolis. She said that the opposition
says they would support the ban if it were state or nationwide, but the City cannot wait
for the State Legislature to decide this issue. She said every year more and more
people are suffering from secondhand smoke-related issues. A smokefree Indianapolis
will lead to a smokefree Indiana.
Debbie Hudson, respiratory therapist for Clarian Health, said that there has been plenty
of testimony about the effects of secondhand smoke. She added that there has also
been lots of testimony from business owners who feel this ordinance is an intrusion.
There are already many regulations imposed by government to protect its citizens. If
someone walked in this room spraying a can of arsenic, benzene, or formaldehyde,
everyone in the room would run from the auditorium, knowing these chemicals are
harmful. She said that these same chemicals are in cigarette smoke, and it is not okay
to pollute her environment with these dangerous chemicals.
Paul Messplay, Smoke Free Indy, said that he has asthma and has researched this
disease thoroughly. He said that he has heard both sides of the issue. With the
opponents of this ordinance, it seems to come down to economics and government
intervention. He said that the economics issue is really not debatable, because
statistics have shown in places that have gone smokefree that there was not an
unbearable adverse effect on the bottom line, and in many instances actually improved
the business. He said that the major function of government is to protect its citizens.
Many people might have died if government had not intervened and forced the removal
of asbestos from buildings, enacted food inspections, and enacted a seatbelt law.
Tanya Parrish, citizen of Hamilton County, stated that she and her husband both work in
Marion County and her daughter goes to daycare in Marion County. Though they do
not vote in Marion County, they spend a majority of their time in Marion County. She
said that she and her husband do not go to bars anymore like they did in their younger
days because they are aware of the hazards of secondhand smoke. She said that they
always request a non-smoking section, but often still have to leave because smoke
filters over from the smoking section and she will not subject her daughter to that
danger.
Carrie Giger, Hamilton County resident, stated that she also works and spends a lot of
time in Marion County. She said that she has been singing with bands in bars for the
last seven years, and while it is a choice she has made and something she loves to do,
she has recurrent sinus infections because of the smoky atmosphere. She said that it is
hard for her to enjoy what she does when she is uncomfortable while performing.
Bill Smythe, owner of four Claude & Annie’s Restaurants and Indy Amusements, said
he is somewhat pleased to hear that bars and taverns might be considered for an
exemption due to the economic hardship this ban would cause. He said that a few

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 10
years ago, the Council supported an ordinance the Mayor proposed to ban video
violence under the guise of protecting children. This was a violation of constitutional
rights, and there was no proof this would harm children, just as there has been no solid
proof of the harm to children in this issue, with all the misrepresentation of facts. He
said that he sees a lot of hypocrisy coming from elected officials on these types of
issues.
Alice Jenkins, a retired registered nurse, provided a couple of testimonies of individuals
whose smoking affected their children, who now have asthma and other respiratory
problems, even though the children never smoked. She said that she sees this as an
easy thing to solve, but not everyone sees it that way.
Bill Bowes, Smoke Free Indy, said that there has been a mountain of evidence about
the dangers of secondhand smoke, and there has been nothing to dispute that. He said
that the only remotely legitimate concern about this ordinance should be losing business
to surrounding counties. However, he does not believe any business will be lost and
most places will probably gain customers. The bar owners have themselves testified
that 90% of their customers smoke, which proves that non-smokers are not frequenting
these establishments, or there would only be approximately 30% of the customers
smoking. He said that many businesses have dramatic increases when going
smokefree.
Liza Storey, citizen, said that she supports the proposal. She said that she and her
fiancé love to go to bars to participate in karaoke, but no longer can do it because of the
effects of secondhand smoke. She said that if this ordinance passes, she knows she
and her fiancé would go out more often with their friends, instead of buying their own
karaoke equipment and inviting friends over.
Jim Doty, Royal Pin Leisure Centers, said that he is concerned about a level playing
field. He said that if this were a State law, he would have no problem, but they face
losing business to surrounding counties. He said that when they chose to make
Woodlawn Bowl a smokefree alley in 1992, they initially lost 27% of their business. He
said that people will travel to bowl, and bowlers have a higher percentage of smokers,
and they need to have the right to compete for business with surrounding counties. He
asked if lounges could be designated as free-standing buildings, as many of their
lounges are.
Richard Darko, citizen, said that if the entire state of California can become smokefree,
then Marion County can do it. He said that Indianapolis should be a leader and look at
this from all viewpoints. He said that this may cost some people some money or some
dislocation, but every government service costs some money, just as the installation of
sprinklers in an establishment costs money. He said that the Americans with
Disabilities Act and the desegregation act cost some business owners money, but they
were the right thing to do.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 11
Tiffany Nichols, citizen, said that she has a four-year-old daughter that she wants to
protect from secondhand smoke. Marion County should be a leader in this movement,
and the surrounding counties will follow. She said that educated people are leaving this
state, and it is time Indianapolis takes the lead to make the community a safer place to
live.
Beulah Coughenour, former Councilwoman, stated that when she was on the Council,
she felt the job of government was to take care of citizens’ welfare and health. She said
that these two things are not mutually exclusive. When places like California, New York
and Florida, who have the most conventions, can go smokefree and not have an
adverse effect on their economy, then she doubts it will hurt business here, either. She
said that the biggest expense for employers now is health care, and the diseases
caused by inhaling smoke are the most costly to treat. She urged the Committee to
pass the ordinance for the good of the citizens of Indianapolis.
David Hogan, Hogan’s Pub, thanked Councillors Day and Mansfield for their follow-up
with him regarding his opinion on this very sensitive matter. He said that there are more
children in private clubs, which are exempted from this ordinance, yet children are not
allowed in his small bar. Chair Mansfield said that private clubs are currently not
exempted in this ordinance, and that was simply a recommendation of the Chamber of
Commerce.
Arnie Elzey, resident of Toledo, Ohio, stated that they have a smokefree ordinance that
now works after a year. He said that they had several issues to work out after financials
were submitted by private businesses. He said that there was a 24% decrease in sales
and a loss of 611 jobs in a six-month period. He said that those statistics have been
turned around by including some exemptions.
Maria Tishner, citizen, stated that her daughter graduates this year, and although she
was accepted at many colleges, she chose Indiana University because Bloomington is
smokefree. She asked the Committee to support the proposal and make Indianapolis a
safer place to live also.
Mike DeWeese, Buffalo Wild Wings and Dick’s Bodacious Barbecue, read a letter from
a bartender who is working the Firemen’s Convention right now. The letter stated that
this is another way for government to take away the rights of small business owners.
He said that convention attendees enjoy the freedom of smoking in bars and he
personally left California because of their smoking ban. He said that this ordinance will
reduce tax revenue.
Charlie Brehob, Sport Bowl, said that there were studies cited at the last meeting about
California. He said that the ordinances in California and Florida did hurt the bowling
industry and caused many centers to go out of business. He said that Toledo, Ohio is
experiencing the same problems. He said that the centers in Bloomington, Indiana lost

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 12
20 to 25% of their business after the ban. He encouraged the Committee to consider
bowling center bars for exemptions with other bars or ban smoking everywhere.
Dan Hodgkins, executive director for health promotion with the Community Health
Network, stated that all of their facilities will be smokefree as of June 1, 2005, and as a
health care provider, they feel they should take the lead in such initiatives and act as a
positive role model. They have eliminated all smoking areas from hospital property, and
there have been over 465 people who have quit and have thanked the hospital for the
policy that led to this outcome. He said that watered down policies lead to watered
down effects.
Marion Dinkins, citizen, said that he supports the ordinance because he depends on
public transportation, and he is frustrated by people who light up cigarettes under the
bus stop shelters when they should be considerate and step out from under the shelter.
He asked that the Committee not exclude this aspect from the ordinance.
Oscar Morales, citizen, presented the Committee with 34 petitions from St. Patrick
Catholic Church in support of the proposal.
Daniel Gangler, ordained minister in the United Methodist Church, stated that the
church has taken a position on tobacco in their social principles and read from those
principles (attached as Exhibit B). He said that there are more than 100 United
Methodist congregations in Marion County.
Julie Bernard, citizen, said that she works part-time as a hostess in a restaurant where
there are smoking and non-smoking sections, and many customers complain about the
smoke drifting into the non-smoking areas. She said that people will still go out to the
clubs and bars with their friends to socialize, whether smoking is allowed or not. She
asked the Committee to support the proposal.
Shelley Vaughn, citizen, stated that she supports the ordinance and works in the public
health industry. She looks at statistics all day long that tell her this ordinance is a nobrainer, and it is the responsibility of government to take care of its citizens. She said
that she used to live in California, and there was not a negative impact on businesses
there following the ban as has been portrayed this evening.
Thomas Wills, Indiana Weekender Newspapers, stated that he is a non-smoker but his
wife is a smoker. He said that the City-County Building and hospitals have gone
smokefree on their own, and there is no need to make a law that limits freedom.
Karey Clock, citizen, stated that it is the role of government to protect its citizens. She
said that secondhand smoke kills and she asked that the Committee protect her.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 13
Michael Messer, citizen, stated that he is recovering from chemotherapy and radiation
due to throat and neck cancer. He said that secondhand smoke does kill and it is
devastating.
Kara Endsley, citizen, said that her body is a holy temple and she needs to protect it.
Everyone needs to be educated to know that secondhand smoke affects everyone,
especially those minorities who have the jobs in the bars and restaurants where
smoking is allowed.
Andrew Crowe, Hendricks County resident, stated that he spends 90% of his time in
Marion County, and he hopes that the Committee will support the proposal to keep
secondhand smoke from killing any more people.
Nicole Spacey, citizen, said that a friend of hers works for a tobacco company but yet
he does not smoke and will not allow smoking in his house. When she asked him why
not, he said that it is because he is not stupid. She asked the Committee to support the
proposal, because secondhand smoke kills.
Jamie Lee, registered respiratory therapist, said that she manages asthma and COPD
patients in 12 inner city clinics and she sees the effects of secondhand smoke on a daily
basis. She said that 60% of her patients are exposed to secondhand smoke, and this
costs the government $30 billion a year.
Tanya Johnson, citizen, urged the Committee to support the ordinance. She said that
the opposition is based on fear, and more will be risked if the proposal is not passed.
She said that alcohol, like cigarettes, is not illegal, but there are regulations to limit the
intake and use so that citizens’ health is protected. She said that there should be limits
on smoking, as well.
Missy Lewis, citizen, presented a banner from students at Butler University in support of
a smokefree Indianapolis. She said that college students are the primary patrons and
workers in bars and restaurants, and they should be protected.
Mike Shanley, resident of Hamilton County, said that he supports the ordinance, and he
believes more business will come into Indianapolis from surrounding counties if the ban
is passed. He said that there are more costs associated with the health effects of
secondhand smoke than there will be because of any loss of business.
Mamie Ware, Indiana Black Expo, said that when Mr. Hetrick spoke this evening, it
really pierced her heart. She asked what price this Committee is willing to pay for
human life. She said that this is a tremendous responsibility, but she trusts the
Committee to make the best decision for the citizens and pass this ordinance.
Mark Webb, Indiana Licensed Beverage Association, thanked the Committee for
listening to independent operators these last few meetings. He said that he hopes the

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 14
Committee will recognize the precarious economic situation some of these
establishments are in. He said that Indianapolis has a wide variety of smokefree
establishments already.
Rebecca Pardue, owner of Marty’s Restaurant and Lounge, said that she has invested
all her money into her business and she listens to her customers and is now open 24
hours serving breakfast. She said that if the smokers are eliminated, she will not have
any patrons and will not be able to survive.
Kent Moore, citizen, said that he is a non-smoker and wishes everyone would quit
smoking, but only when it is their personal choice. He opposes this proposal on purely
political grounds. He is tired of government stepping in and telling him how to live his
life, particularly the public health zealots who claim to know all the facts. He said that it
has been said that it is not a right to smoke, but the Bill of Rights does not include the
right to life, either. He said that the right to life is contained in a post-amendment to the
Bill of Rights which reads that “no branch of government shall restrict a person’s right to
life, liberty or their privileges.” He said that, one by one, liberties are being eroded by a
government that thinks they know better. He asked what other rights will be violated in
the name of protection. He quoted a Holocaust victim who did not speak up until there
was no one left to speak for him.
Tiffinie Smith, Tobacco Free Coalition member, Indiana University-Purdue University of
Indianapolis (IUPUI), stated that as a college student, she has had to take jobs in
smoking establishments in order to pay her way through college. She said this is not
about smokers’ rights versus non-smokers’ rights. No one is saying that smokers
cannot smoke. They are simply asking that they not do it around others so as not to
endanger anyone else’s health.
Daniel Moffit, Tobacco Free Coalition member, said that as a college student, he is
subjected to smoking quite often. He said that smoking stinks and is polluting the air he
breathes, and he would appreciate the Committee taking steps to protect his health and
quality of life.
Dr. Elizabeth Hamilton-Byrd, citizen, said that she is here to speak as a wife, a mother,
and a voter, not as a physician, even though she has seen the horrors smoking causes.
She said that no one has the right to inflict harm on another person. People are
afforded plenty of rights. Those over the age of 21 have the right to drink alcohol, but
they do not have the right to get into a car after drinking alcohol and hit someone else
and kill them. She said that it is not about civil liberties. Most people know smoking is
harmful, but they continue to do it. However, when they are smoking in public places,
their personal choice inflicts harm on her.
Rich Strong, director of environmental health and safety at IUPUI, said that he is 100%
convinced that this Committee is doing the right thing with this ordinance. He said that
workers in bars should not be discriminated against and left unprotected. He said that

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 15
restaurants and bars have many regulations they must comply with, and there are some
economic issues attached to these regulations. No one has a right to poison others with
carcinogens, and employees do not always have the choice to go elsewhere for a job.
Michelle Harris, citizen, stated that she supports the ordinance in its most
comprehensive form. She said that she wants to go out to bars and restaurants and
spend money, but often does not because of the smoke. She said that it is absurd to
teach children not to smoke because it is bad for their health, yet the policy and practice
of adults contradicts that message. She said that she will be going to seminary next fall
in California because of the smokefree environment, but she would like to return to live
and work in Indianapolis, and that decision will be affected if this proposal is not passed.
Tom Neltner, Improving Kids’ Environment, said that all but six people who have spoken
this evening have said that they do not want kids to be exposed. Those six were
focused on narrow economic interests. He said that it is important that there not be any
exposure to smoke for children. He said that Chair Mansfield asked the Chamber to
explain the negative economic impact, but never received an answer. He said that
many people do not have a choice where they work and it is not a democracy, and
those workers should be protected. He said that there are a lot of places he would like
to go to see live bands, but cannot because of the smoke. This issue is not black or
white, and this ordinance does not ban smoking in homes, but should ban it anywhere
kids are exposed.
Jeffrey Kent, Wooden Nickel Bar & Grill, said that he polled his customers. Out of 95
people, 38 said they would not come back, 49 would not come as often, three did not
care, and four would come more often. He said that he cannot run his business with
seven customers. He said that this ordinance will put him out of work, and if the
Committee is concerned about the effects of air pollution, they should ban automobiles
and cigarettes completely.
Tonya Miller Bailey, citizen, said that she finds it discouraging that this issue is even
being discussed, because it is common sense. She said that those who say there is no
link between secondhand smoke and illnesses are simply not well-informed. She said
that more people would be here to speak in favor of this proposal, but do not come for
fear of losing their jobs. She said that she has visited other smokefree cities and thinks
Indianapolis should follow their example.
Ricardo Imán, Wishard Hospital employee, said that many Hispanics will not come to
testify because of the language barrier or fear of losing their job. He said that many
Hispanics are affected because they take the jobs no one else wants and work in those
smoking environments. He said that smoking kills and is a serious health issue. He
thanked the Committee for helping the people.
Betty Bledsoe, citizen, said that she grew up in a home with chain smokers. Now she
does not have the choices she used to and she is on treatments every three hours to

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 16
breathe. She said that she has helped raise 230 children through foster programs, and
has 11 children here with her now. She said that hearing some of these people
speaking about rights makes her sad, because for 20 years growing up, she had no
rights. She said that she has had multiple surgeries and developed other illnesses
because of the effect of secondhand smoke. She asked who will take care of her
children when her health is too bad that she can no longer do so. She said that she
pays over $700 a month for insurance because of health risks caused when she had no
protection. She said that the Governor and Mayor do not have to work in a smoke-filled
environment and no one else should have to either.
Nicholas Bledsoe, 10-year-old, said that he has asthma and so do some of his other
siblings. He said that it is not fair that they cannot go to a restaurant and enjoy time out
with his family because other people are smoking.
Amanda Bledsoe, 18-year-old, said that she has had the right to smoke for a year, but
has chosen not to, because of the health hazard. She said that it is not fair for her to
make choices that affect others, and it is not fair for another to make a choice that
affects her, either.
Travis Cross, outreach director of the Libertarian Party of Marion County, said that there
is research that says secondhand smoke is harmful, but there is also research that says
the effects are negligible. He said that there has been documented information that
smokefree regulations are harmful to business economics. He said that no one on this
Committee will lose money if this proposal is passed, but many business owners will.
He said that if it is so wrong, it should be banned everywhere. He said that this
proposal is irrational, and the Committee is not interested in protecting the rights of
children and workers. This is simply another example of government trampling on the
rights of an unpopular minority.
Tim Filler, Smoke Free Indy, said that every major medical and health organization
agrees that secondhand smoke is harmful. The only ones who do not agree are those
organizations associated with the tobacco industry. He said that he chooses to rely on
the medical organizations’ opinion. He said that ventilation equipment does not clean
the air of carcinogens, and there is no acceptable level of secondhand smoke. Even
the producers of this equipment put warnings on their equipment that says that they are
not responsible for guarding the effects of secondhand smoke.
Moussa Cisse, Community Health Network, relayed a story about a trip to Africa where
one patron asked the owner to ask his customers to stop smoking because it bothered
him, and the owner complied because that person was his guest. He said that he
wishes Indianapolis would follow that example.
Scott Eder, Harvester Bar & Grill, said that if his customers asked for a non-smoking
establishment, he would give them what they wanted. He added that his industry has
been asked to contribute more food and beverage taxes to build a new stadium. He

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 17
said that no one is allowed in his establishment under 21 years old, and this should be
his decision at the request of his customers. He said if this proposal passes, he would
be glad to accept bids on his restaurant, as he knows it will hurt his business.
Donna Adams, citizen, said that it is not the proper role of government to regulate
smoking. She said that while there may be studies that show secondhand smoke to be
harmful, there are other studies that contradict those findings. She said there are
already an abundance of non-smoking establishments. She said that this ordinance will
hurt convention business and local businesses.
Susan Lomelin, citizen, said that she is a registered nurse but is opposed to this ban for
political reasons. She said that this is an intrusion on private business, and businesses
should be allowed to run their business how they see fit. When cell phone use while
driving was questioned, such a ban did not pass because there are other things that
cause poor driving and not just cell phone use. One issue should not be singled out
over another, and air pollution is a bigger problem because of car and factory
emissions. She said that the government should stop regulating health. Next they will
tell people they cannot be overweight.
Terry McCullough, citizen, said that she is sure everyone believes smoking is bad for
health, but this ordinance is telling business owners whether or not they can allow a
legal activity in their facility. She said that non-smokers do not have to patronize the
smoking establishment. Individual workers should be allowed to make their own
decisions about where they work and whether or not they want to risk their health.
Frederico Lomeli, citizen, said that America is the land of freedom, and this Committee
serves because of the citizens’ votes. He said that the Committee needs to protect the
interests of everyone and not just a portion of the population. He said that many are
afraid to be here to speak up, but this is a vote against freedom and the Committee
should concentrate on real air pollution and not minor particles from a cigarette.
Chair Mansfield stated that this facility is located in Councillor Abduallah’s district and
she invited him to make some remarks. Councillor Abduallah thanked those who came
to testify and said that he is grateful that so many have come out to make their views
known. He said that he is firm in his position and believes that a smokefree ordinance
is needed in this community for the health and welfare of the people.
Councillor Bradford said that he is encouraged by a media advisory he read today that
some amendments are being considered, including excluding establishments for those
over 21 years old, and extending the effective date to two years. He said that in Broad
Ripple, new establishments were asked to provide family rooms, and now that they
have worked diligently to provide more options for families, this ordinance will destroy all
that hard work. He asked about clarification of outdoor seating and whether or not table
umbrellas would make an area smokefree. Chair Mansfield said that there is a

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 14, 2005
Page 18
definition of enclosed areas and they must have covering on at least two sides. A
simple umbrella would not be an enclosed area.
Councillor Keller said that he heard tonight that there is a World Health Organization
study available that says that secondhand smoke is not harmful. He said that his
brother, Dr. Alan Keller, is the highest ranking American in the World Health
Organization and he has done extensive research and contends that no such study
exists.
Councillor Bowes thanked all citizens for coming out this evening and in the other public
forums and said that these opinions will all be taken into consideration. He said that this
is a community decision, and he encouraged citizens to continue to call and write their
Councillors to let their voices be heard.
Chair Mansfield said that the next hearing of the Committee will be on April 21, 2005 in
the City-County Building, and a vote is expected on the proposal at the May 5, 2005
meeting.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 9:55 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

April 7, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:14 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:58 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS
Jim Bradford

AGENDA
PUBLIC FORUM
Members of the public will be invited to express their
views regarding the proposed smokefree air act.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, April 7, 2005 at the Perry Township Government Center located at 4925
South Shelby Street. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:14 p.m.
with the following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Greg Bowes, Susie Day, Scott
Keller, William Oliver, and Steve Talley. Jim Bradford was absent. Councillor Mike
Speedy was also in attendance.
PUBLIC FORUM
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a
recommendation is made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for
action until May 5, 2005.)
Chair Mansfield welcomed everyone to the Perry Township Government Center and
thanked Perry Township Deputy Trustee Harold Day and those associated with the
Center for allowing them to use the facility. She apologized for the delay in getting
started and said that the presenter scheduled to speak this evening is running late. She
welcomed Councillor Mike Speedy to this hearing near his district in Perry Township.
She said that she will proceed with public testimony until the presenter arrives.
Dr. Douglas Williams, Perry Township Schools superintendent, stated that there are
drug free programs in all Perry schools, and grants are provided for educating young
people on various health hazards and the dangers of drugs. He said that it is
hypocritical to spend so much money and time to educate children and then send them
to work in a dangerous atmosphere. He said that he has three grown daughters who
have all chosen smokefree cities to live in, and he hopes the Committee is committed to
doing the right thing and providing the same clean environment for Marion County’s
children.
Cliff Medenwald, owner of the Fat Cat Bar, asked the Committee to oppose the
proposal. He said that he has spent over $60,000 to make his establishment a
desirable environment, and if this proposal passes, he will have to close his doors. He
said that he sells cigarettes and advertises the sale of tobacco and the fact that smoking
is permitted in his establishment. He said that he is a non-smoker, but if others do not
like smoke, they do not have to come to his bar. He said that when the Council starts
paying his bills they can tell him how to run his business.

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 2
Chair Mansfield stated that Dr. Virginia Caine, director of the Marion County Health
Department (MCHD), will offer a brief presentation regarding the impact of secondhand
smoke on the citizens of Marion County. Dr. Caine stated that secondhand smoke is a
pervasive public health problem in Marion County. According to the Center for Disease
Control (CDC), Marion County has the third highest smoking rate in Indiana. She
presented a Powerpoint presentation (attached as Exhibit A) and showed that Marion
County smoking rates are higher than the overall Indiana rates. She reviewed current
tobacco use in Marion County and noted that smoking among pregnant teens is
excessive, and can lead to low birth rates or other birth defects. She said that the
MCHD’s goal is to decrease the smoking prevalence in Marion County to make it a
healthier place to live, to prevent youth from beginning the practice of smoking, and to
protect non-smokers from secondhand smoke exposure. She listed some health factors
attributed to secondhand smoke exposure, such as lung cancer, heart disease, stroke,
asthma, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), ear infections, and respiratory
infections. She relayed specific statistics related to lung cancer deaths in Marion
County and mortality rates, as well as asthma prevalence, as compared to Indiana,
California, and the entire United States as outlined in Exhibit A. She said that the
economic vitality of the nation is limited by poor health, premature death and long-term
disability of uninsured workers. Lifestyle choices determine health care costs, and
Indiana’s aging population and poor health status contribute to hospital costs. She said
that surveys show that Indiana ranks 7th in the nation in the prevalence of smoking, 10th
in sedentary lifestyle, 4th in obesity, 4th in cancer deaths, and 11th in heart disease. She
relayed the coronary heart disease and stroke death rate statistics and goals as
portrayed in Exhibit A. Dr. Caine said that smokefree policies help to protect workers
from exposure, change social norms, reduce consumption of tobacco products, and
increase cessation attempts. She said that it is time to make Indianapolis a healthy
community if they can, and this proposal will help to do that.
Councillor Abduallah thanked Dr. Caine for sharing statistics and asked if secondhand
smoke is an epidemic health concern for Marion County. Dr. Caine said that there is
not doubt that it is. Councillor Abduallah asked if there is any estimate of how many
people will be impacted positively by passage of this proposal. Dr. Caine said that in
Helena, Montana, the smokefree ordinance reduced the rate of heart attacks by 44%,
and she could estimate forecast trends, but cannot give an accurate number for Marion
County specifically.
Chair Mansfield asked if the MCHD has tracked information to focus on smokefree
workplaces. Dr. Caine said that occupational agencies have tracked that type of
information, and Marion County has the second worst protection for workers against
secondhand smoke in Indiana. Chair Mansfield thanked Dr. Caine for her presentation.
Dennis Barr, citizen of Boone County, said that he is a smoker and likes to have a
cigarette when he goes to a bar to drink. He said that he is over 21 years old and can
read. He asked if the Council is going to outlaw sugar next. He said that according to
the dining choices website, there are 137 restaurants catering to non-smokers and only

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 3
23 smoking establishments, and therefore non-smokers already have more
opportunities than smokers. He said that he lives in Boone County and will not visit
Marion County for his dining choices if this proposal passes.
Jose Morado, owner of the Shelby Street Saloon, stated that most of his customers
smoke and if this proposal passes, it will close him down. He said that the City will lose
revenue if all of these places close down, and will therefore have to raise taxes.
Doug Stephens, attorney representing the owner of Peppy Grill in the Fountain Square
area, said that the Peppy Grill is a gathering place for neighbors and has a loyal
clientele. He said that 80% of their customers and all of their employees smoke. He
said that it should be a personal choice, and the Council should let the market decide
when restaurants should go smokefree.
Norm Slade, citizen, stated that he does not go to non-smoking bars or restaurants, and
will simply stay home and not spend his money in any establishment if this proposal
passes.
Bill Bowes, Smoke Free Indy, stated that the market cannot always be counted on to
protect the best interest and safety of citizens, such as in the case with Firestone tires
and government regulations. He said that just because a product is popular and legal,
the use of it should not cause danger to another citizen’s health.
Leigh Hinkle, citizen, stated that she is a cancer survivor and endured 12 rounds of
chemotherapy and 20 radiation treatments. She said that her lungs are permanently
damaged and there are many places she would like to frequent, but cannot because of
the trouble the smoke causes for her breathing. She said that even those places that
have separate non-smoking sections affect her drastically, and there really is no
protection. She said that she works for the American Cancer Society and is proud of
what she does and the difference education can make.
Aida McGammon, chief executive officer of the Indiana Latino Institute, said that the
latino community is highly affected by secondhand smoke. She said that many latinos
work in restaurants or places where they are not protected, and are too afraid of losing
their jobs to speak out. She said that she has a petition of over 2,000 latino residents
and 98 hispanic-owned businesses that support Proposal No. 45, 2005 in Marion
County.
Wiley McGammon, citizen, said that he is a victim of secondhand smoke, as he was
diagnosed with throat cancer, even though he had never smoked. He said that he
endured 40 radiation treatments and his taste buds no longer work properly. He said
that cancer is hell, and this proposal is right to protect everyone from having to endure
what he has.

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 4
Roger Riddle, owner of the Wreck Bar, said that this proposal will put him out of
business. He said that 90% of his customers smoke, and if a person does not smoke,
they do not have to visit his bar. He said that there are many things that kill, including
obesity, but there are no laws against them.
Ed Massey, operator of games and music equipment in Marion County, said that he is
opposed to Proposal No. 45, 2005. He said that most of these establishments are over21 establishments, and it is legal to buy cigarettes. He said that they pay taxes on this
legal product that helps subsidize so many projects in the County. He said that some
places in Columbus, Ohio have seen almost a 30% drop in revenue. He said that there
is warning information on every pack of cigarettes, and the smoker has the right to
smoke or not to smoke. He said that instead of passing this ordinance, the Council
should simply require bars and restaurants to identify themselves as smoking or nonsmoking establishments.
Chair Mansfield stated that Councillor Keller has a prior engagement and must leave.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Keller left at 7:25 p.m.]
Dr. Richard Feldman, St. Francis Hospital, stated that secondhand smoke causes acute
life-threatening diseases and someone else does not have the right to make a choice
that hurts another.
Joan Hogan, Hogan’s Pub, stated that her customers oppose the proposal and are
mostly elderly citizens who should be left alone. She said that smokers pay a tax on
cigarettes, and business owners buy licenses to sell tobacco. She said that the
exemption of cigar and martini bars shows that those establishments that have more
money receive more consideration.
Julian Peebles, Ruth Lilly Health Education Center, said that their board of directors
unanimously voted to support Proposal No. 45, 2005. He said that now is the time to
act on limiting this insidious effect on citizens’ health.
Ben Ciaccio, owner of Just Darts amusement vending company, stated that they have
450 pieces of equipment in 60 bars, and losing 35% of their revenue would be
devastating to his business.
Rhoda Walker, owner of three bars, stated that if this passes, she will be out of
business. She said that this Committee wants to protect children, but no one under 21
can enter her establishment.
Greg Dixon, Libertarian Party, stated that they have been told this is a health issue and
will not affect economics, but those are not the real issues. He said that he does not
need government protecting his children, as that is his responsibility as a parent. He
said that maybe there needs to instead be a ban on bad parenting. He said that
comparing the role of this Council with a decision made by dictator Fidel Castro of Cuba

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 5
does not speak well. He said that the Council is trying to push the desires of the
majority on the minority. He asked the Committee to obey the constitution and get out
of the way and let people decide for themselves. This is the only way to really build a
first-class city.
Max Gehrich, Carson Pub II, said that that they are a very competitive coin-operated
dart bar, and 75% of their customers smoke, with 88% of darters saying this proposal’s
passage will affect their attendance at the bar. He said that his establishment is too
close to Johnson County and the passage of the proposal will cause his business to
close.
Charles McPherson, owner of Hoosier Pub, stated that he has only been in business a
short time, as he was a Sheriff’s Department employee for 30 years. He said that they
have 100 to 115 regular customers, and 85 to 90% of them smoke. He said that he
does not know how passage of this proposal will affect his business, but knows it will
suffer. He said that he has invested his life savings into this business and new
equipment, and the government should let them run their establishments the way their
customers dictate.
Joe Wilson, owner of two bars, said that many neighborhood taverns barely exist as it
is, and non-smokers can simply choose not to visit and drive on by. He said that he is
willing to place signs that identify his bar as a smoking establishment. He said that the
Committee says they are listening, but it seems their minds are already made up.
Rebecca Pardue, owner of Marty’s Restaurant and Lounge, said that she has been a
non-smoker for two years after 33 years of smoking and is a breast cancer survivor, but
that was her choice. She said that she had two children and no low birth rates. She
said that the passage of this ordinance would cause her business to close and she
asked the Committee to consider that.
Michael Smythe, Indy Amusements, stated that it is not a matter of how much money
these people will lose, but about personal responsibility. He said that he is a parent, a
taxpayer, and a law-abiding citizen. He said that his children do not smoke and he
believes some of the statistics being quoted are exaggerated and not well-documented.
Mark Webb, Marion County Chapter of the Indiana Licensed Beverage Association,
stated that children have nothing to do with these tavern and bar operations, and these
establishments are already paying an extra one percent tax, and if the government gets
their way, will end up paying two percent. He said it should be the owners’ choice.
Deborah McLaughlin, owner of the Living Room Lounge, stated that her employees
choose to work for her and do not feel that they have dangerous jobs. She said that if
the city does not need her taxes and can find jobs for her and her employees, then she
has no problem with the ordinance. She said that all her workers and patrons are over

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 6
21 and sometimes need to have a cigarette and drink before going home, so that they
do not smoke in front of their children.
Laura Rooder, citizen of Martinsville, said that she is a non-smoker who works in Marion
County and waits tables at the Living Room Lounge and it is her choice to work there.
She said that many patrons come to their establishment to smoke during lunch or after
work, because they are not allowed to smoke at their workplace. She said that she has
never heard of anyone dying of secondhand smoke.
Charlie Brehob, Sport Bowl, stated that he would personally prefer not to work in a
smoking environment, but unless this smokefree act is state-wide, he is afraid of its
economic impact on his bowling alley. He said that they try to accommodate all bowlers
and have even offered smoke-out days, but only about 37% of their patrons want a
smoke-free environment. He said that league bowlers spend three hours bowling, and
most of them will go where smoking is allowed. He said that smokefree policies do
affect people’s decisions to bowl. Eight to 15% quit smoking, 26% look for a smoking
center, and 15% would travel 30 miles to another county that allows smoking. He said
that he employs 32 full and part-time employees and believes they would lose 30% of
their customers to Johnson County, which is only eight miles away. He said that
passage of this proposal would deny Sport Bowl a level playing field. He said that he
could support the proposal if it was state-wide, but county-wide, it puts him at a
competitive disadvantage.
Kelly Alley, citizen, said that she knows secondhand smoke causes disease and death,
and she would love to go to restaurants, bars and comedy clubs, but cannot because of
the smoke. She said that workers have rights and no worker is less important than any
other that some should be protected and some should not.
Steve Baker, Colonial Inn, said that this is the government getting into his pockets and
he will lose business. He said that everyone that comes into his bar is 21 years old and
this proposal will cause his business to suffer.
Becky Thacker, citizen, said that she is simply an ordinary person who will be very
happy if the Council passes this ordinance.
Rick Coop, citizen, said that there is no difference in the air pollution between smoking
and non-smoking sections in a restaurant. He said that he is not saying people should
not smoke, just that they should not do it in a public place where he would like to eat
and be entertained. He said if smoking is banned in all bars and restaurants, some
business might decline at first, but not for long, as people will have nowhere else to go
that permits smoking.
Sarah Childers, tobacco control coordinator at Health Net, Inc., said that the medical
costs associated with smoking and secondhand smoke are reason enough to pass this
proposal.

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 7
Paul Shellabarger, 20-year restaurant owner, said that the Committee should be as
willing to protect business owners as they are non-smokers. He said that there needs
to be a balance, and while he understands that smoking has risks, the effect this
proposal will have on small businesses needs to be taken into consideration.
Harriet Clare, citizen, said that she is a non-smoker who believes that people should
have the freedom to make their own choices, but not when it comes to killing people.
She said that murder is not legal, and secondhand smoke kills.
Donna Brubeck, representing the owner of The Green Door, stated that she agrees
public buildings should be smokefree, but small business owners should be allowed to
make the decision whether or not to go smokefree on their own, based on the wishes of
their customers.
Don Musselman, III, owner of Longacre Bar and Grill, stated that smokefree bars is not
an issue to be handled locally. Instead, effort should be made to make the sale of
tobacco illegal on a national level, if it is such a devastating health risk.
Dick Huber, retired physician, stated that the only reason for the government to exist is
to protect the health and safety of its citizens. He said that the Committee should not let
their emotions and dollar signs get in the way. He said that everyone should stop
talking about freedom and start talking about what is right. He said that smokefree is
coming, and Marion County can be the last one on the train or can be a leader in
protecting the health of its citizens.
Kenny Bland, managing partner of Cheeseburger in Paradise, stated that his restaurant
is three miles from the coutny line, and 60% of their sales come from late night
customers, of which 60% of those smoke. He said that many of his employees are nonsmokers and they choose to work in the smoking sections because they make good tips
there. He said that they let their workers choose to work in a smoking or non-smoking
section. He said that this proposal would be taking away the American Dream for
some.
Paul Messplay, chairman of the public policy committee for Smoke Free Indy, said that
he quit smoking 30 years ago and still feels guilty about exposing his employees to
secondhand smoke. He said that this proposal is about protecting workers in all
industries.
Elissa Kaupisch, citizen, stated that both her parents passed away from cancer, and
she has asthma and is allergic to smoke. She said that secondhand smoke leads to
cancer, not just in children, but in adults too. She said that she loves her job in a notfor-profit organization, but she cannot enjoy a meal in their cafeteria because of the
smokers. She said that people do not just go to bars to smoke, but to drink and
socialize, and they will still go if smoking is no longer allowed. She said that this

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 8
proposal will insure better health for everyone, and she will be able to go into a
restaurant that she currently cannot frequent.
Jeffrey Kent, owner of the Wooden Nickel Bar & Grill, stated that 90% of his customers
are smokers and if his customers wanted a smokefree environment, he would go
smokefree. He does not need this Committee making that business decision for him.
Dallas Eaton, manager of the Red Garter Gentleman’s Club, said that this proposal will
also affect guests from out of town, and more than 50% of their customers are from out
of state. These visitors help add to the tax and revenue base for Marion County. He
said that his entertainment venue helps to support the convention business in
Indianapolis, and this ordinance would hurt his business.
Jeremy Grimes, Gary’s Lounge, said that bars have reported loss of revenue in
smokefree areas and businesses are failing. He said he would be more than happy to
put up a sign advertising his bar as a smoking establishment. He asked the Committee
to stop ever-intrusive expanding government.
Eric Tax, Club Zeus manager, stated that he moved to Indianapolis because he could
not smoke in California and lost his job there because of the smokefree ordinance. He
asked where he can go so that his lifestyle and employment are not affected.
Kristin Collins, owner of Bobby Jo’s Beef & Brew, stated that her restaurant is an alladult dining establishment, and the Council should let business owners make their own
decisions. She said that she has an outdoor dining area that would not even be
permitted to have smoking if this ordinance is passed.
Laura Viaches, citizen, said that she is 26 years old but cannot go to bars with her
friends because of the smoke. She said that wait time for non-smoking sections is
sometimes a 60-minute wait, while smokers can be seated immediately in most
restaurants, proving that there are more non-smokers than smokers. She said that
Ireland passed this same ordinance country-wide and the pubs are still packed and
business has actually increased in some places. She asked business owners to keep
an open mind about the economic impact.
Rex Burcham, Kelly’s Pub II, said that if this proposal was passed nationally, it would
not affect his business, but he is four miles from the county line, where smoking is still
allowed.
Tim Filler, Smoke Free Indy, said that the prediction of economic failure is based on
perceptions and not on facts or data. He said that he has reviewed many documents
that indicate smokefree ordinances did not hurt businesses and he provided Committee
members with some of these documents.

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 9
Jack Rossman, Air Cleaning Specialists, stated that the data says there is no safe level
of air cleaning, but this is a fallacy. He said that the problem is that there are codes in
place that are not being followed and enforced. He said that he believes a common
ground can be found.
Nick Baker, American Cancer Society, stated that there is false information being given,
and there are no studies that have been done by the American Cancer Society that
would indicate that secondhand smoke is not a health hazard. He said that secondhand
smoke does indeed lead to disease and death and this is a peer-reviewed documented
fact.
Travis Cross, Libertarian Party, stated that the real issue is property rights. He said that
the free market should dictate these types of business decisions. He added that the risk
seems lopsided and asked if the loss of liberty is worth the risk.
Melissa Lewis, citizen, said that smokers can still enter these smokefree venues, but
simply will have to be courteous and step outside to smoke, so as not to endanger the
health of others. She said that no one would have ever imagined that smoking would
be outlawed on planes or movie theaters, either, but that has not hurt these businesses.
She said that business owners are not thinking of the possible clientele they could gain
by going smokefree. She added that secondhand smoke kills.
Kyresa Westbrook, Smoke Free Indy, said that smokers can still smoke, but simply
must go outside to do so. She said that most of the opposition is based on fear, and
New York and California had the same fears, but have found that they could save
money on filters, experience less loss of workers due to illness, save lives, and protect
profits.
Kathy Nichols, citizen, said that she has been to too many funerals of people who died
from secondhand smoke. People were not in favor of the seatbelt law that passed at
first, but it has saved lives, and therefore was worth it.
Demetrius Georgiopolus, citizen, stated that he came to this country for more freedom,
but this proposal is taking away the freedom he seeks. He said that if the Committee is
concerned about air pollution, they should address other smoke-causing issues, such
as factories and truck exhaust.
Billy McKinney, citizen, stated that he personally called every Councillor and most did
not return his call. He said that he does not believe in local and state government
running his life. In order to stay the greatest country, freedoms should remain.
Chair Mansfield said that she was one who did return Mr. McKinney’s call, and she
thanked all citizens for coming out this evening to express their views. She said that
there will be one more public forum on April 14, 2005 at the Shortridge Middle School,
and she encouraged citizens to continue to let their views be heard.

Children’s Heath and Environment Committee
April 7, 2005
Page 10
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:58 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

March 30, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:01 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:11 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS
Jim Bradford

AGENDA
PUBLIC FORUM
Members of the public will be invited to express their
views regarding the proposed smokefree air act.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Wednesday, March 30, 2005 at the Pecar Health Center located at 6940 N. Michigan
Road. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 5:01 p.m. with the
following members present: Greg Bowes, Susie Day, Scott Keller, William Oliver, and
Steve Talley. Patrice Abduallah arrived shortly thereafter. Jim Bradford was absent.
Councillor Lincoln Plowman was also in attendance.
PUBLIC FORUM
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a
recommendation is made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for
action until May 5, 2005.)
Chair Mansfield stated that this meeting was scheduled as a public forum to give the
public the opportunity to express their opinions, with no limitations regarding the
material presented as had been the case at past meetings. She said that there will be a
two-minute limit on public testimony so that all who wish to speak will be given an
opportunity. Chair Mansfield said that she would like to begin by thanking Matt
Gutwein, president and chief executive officer (CEO) of the Health and Hospital
Corporation (H&H) of Marion County, for helping to arrange the use of the Pecar Health
Center. She said that holding the hearing at this location means a lot to her personally,
as she actually worked for Phil and Vivian Pecar, for whom the facility is named. She
added that Mr. Pecar was a great individual to work for, and it is fitting that this facility is
named after him. She is equally pleased that the facility is actually in the Council district
she represents.
Mr. Gutwein welcomed all Committee members and members of the public to this public
forum at the Phil and Vivian Pecar Health Care Center. He said that this new facility is
a community health care center that provides services for health care to anyone in the
community, whether they have the ability to pay or not. It is the first place in the country
where an individual can get primary care, as well as public and community health care,
with case management services. He said that the Center is a national model for
providing quality health care. Ninety percent of all employees at the Center are bilingual, with a few who are tri-lingual. With regards to Proposal No. 45, 2005, H&H and
Wishard Health Centers are supportive of the ordinance. He said that the entire country
of Ireland has banned smoking in its pubs. Cuba has banned smoking in public places,
including restaurants. Surely the city of Indianapolis can catch up with the rest of the
world.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 2
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Abduallah arrived at 5:06 p.m.]
Chair Mansfield stated that before the meeting is opened up for public testimony, a brief
presentation will be offered by Kyresa Westbrook regarding Smoke Free Indy. Ms.
Westbrook said that she is a tobacco control specialist with the local American Cancer
Society. In that role, she serves as the chairperson of a group called Smoke Free Indy.
Smoke Free Indy was founded in 2002 and worked hard, yet unsuccessfully, to pass a
comprehensive smokefree workplace ordinance. In 2004, the group was reconvened
with a more structured organization to carry out a public policy campaign. She said that
the group is very collaborative and diverse and their mission is to educate the
community on the dangers of secondhand smoke and help to pass a smokefree
ordinance. She provided packets of information to Committee members which include a
list of partners and names of organizations that have signed on to support Smoke Free
Indy’s initiatives. [Clerk’s Note: A copy of this packet and the Powerpoint presentation
is attached as Exhibit A.] She recognized members of Smoke Free Indy present this
evening and asked all who support the ordinance to stand. She said that some of the
harmful chemicals found in cigarette smoke include ammonia, benzene, arsenic,
formaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide, and carbon monoxide. She said that secondhand
smoke is classified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a Group A
carcinogen, which means that it is known to cause cancer in humans. Group A
carcinogens include only the most dangerous substances, such as asbestos and radon.
Indiana ranks a dismal 49th in the United States for workplace protection from
secondhand smoke exposure. Workers exposed to secondhand smoke on the job are
34% more likely to get lung cancer. She said that restaurant and bar workers are the
least protected, and blue collar and service workers are less protected than white collar
workers, which sends the errant message that those working behind a desk are more
valuable. She said that many of these workers are afraid to come and speak up at
these meetings for fear of losing their jobs.
Ms. Westbrook said that the most common arguments against this ordinance are that it
will hurt local business and is another intrusion on personal freedoms. She said that
multiple studies have disproved the myth that smokefree ordinances hurt business, and
it is the role of the government to protect the health of the public. She said that
separate smoking sections do not really work, as the smoking can flow from one area to
the next very easily. She said that as well as reducing nonsmoker exposure to
secondhand smoke, smokefree ordinances also affect smoker behavior and increase
cessation of smoking. She said that this ordinance does not ban smoking completely,
but it simply addresses a public health issue. She said that Smoke Free Indy applauds
the bi-partisan efforts of the Council to address this important issue, and they believe it
is good for public health, good for workers, and good for business.
Chair Mansfield thanked Ms. Westbrook for her presentation. She welcomed Councillor
Patrice Abduallah as a new member of the Committee and Councillor Lincoln Plowman
as an interested party who is not a member of the Committee. She said that the next

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 3
three meetings of the Committee will also be public forums and will be held at different
locations around the City with adequate parking to allow members of the public several
opportunities for input. She asked those speaking to please identify their address or
Council district and which Council member represents them if they know this
information.
Penny Bigelow, 1424 Sandi Drive, stated that this is a health issue, and as elected
officials, the Council’s first duty is to protect the public, even from themselves. She said
that public officials should heed the physicians’ Hippocratic oath to do no harm, and
smoking harms. She said that over 70% of Indianapolis citizens do not smoke, but
because they are not opposed to the proposal, the Committee may not ever hear from
this silent majority. She said that studies have proven that businesses will not suffer
economically, and if those restaurants that are already smokefree were hurting
financially from this decision, there would not be so many others following their
example. She said that looking at the long-term, the businesses and entire population
will be taxed for additional health care because of smoking. She said it will be easier to
get a state-wide or regional smoking ban if Indianapolis is the leader in this issue.
Fern Mirkin, citizen, said that she suffers from severe allergies, and whether or not she
can eat in a restaurant or enjoy an establishment is dictated by smokers. She said that
some people may be able to tolerate small amounts of secondhand smoke, but for her a
thimble-full is too much. Within seconds of exposure, she has severe symptoms that
linger long after exposure and sometimes last for weeks. She said that in college there
were no smokefree dorm rooms and she was sick all the time. She moved to Salt Lake
City, Utah because smoking was banned there and she could live a better quality life.
She asked if the City is willing to stop mandatory polio vaccinations because of personal
choice. She said that this is a public health issue, and waiting 50 years for the market
to finally decide that exposure to deadly toxins is harmful is too long to wait.
Mickey Mauer, newly appointed chairman of the Indiana Economic Development
Corporation (IEDC), said that one of the things that was important to him when
Governor Mitch Daniels named him to the IEDC was that he could remain a spokesman
for Smoke Free Indy. Governor Daniels agreed that was an important duty and has
allowed him to do so. He said that promoting commerce and representing Smoke Free
Indy are intertwined in his opinion. He said that a first-class city takes care of all of its
workers and is concerned about their quality of life. One of the best ways to promote
Indianapolis and Indiana is to have an ordinance in place such as this. Well over 1,000
cities have already gone smokefree, and it is eventually going to happen. So why does
Indianapolis have to be last? He said that everyone will profit from passage of this
ordinance.
Tim Smeehuyzen, owner of Smee’s Place Bar & Grill and resident of the ButlerTarkington area, said that after 11 years in business, he decided to go smokefree on his
own. He said that in the eight months he has been smokefree, his business has grown
through new customers, through sales, and through goodwill generated by a clean air

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 4
atmosphere. He said it would probably be better for his business if this ordinance was
not enacted and smoking was allowed everywhere else but his place. He went
smokefree because he was tired of the smoke and felt it was time and would be better
for everyone. There is life after non-smoking and he wishes he had gone smokefree 10
years ago. While he may have lost a couple dozen customers at first, he has replaced
those two dozen with eight or ten dozen new customers who come more often and stay
longer. He said that most of his employees smoke, but now that they cannot smoke at
work, they are smoking less and spending less money on cigarettes, and it is better for
them all in the long run.
LaVanna Lawson, full-time student at Indiana University-Purdue University of
Indianapolis (IUPUI), said that she is a resident of Councillor Bradford’s district. She
stated that she works at a highly trafficked bar in Broad Ripple approximately 25 to 35
hours a week in five to eight-hour shifts. She said that on slow days, there are a
minimum of 10 people smoking at any given time, with as many as 50 to 100 individuals
smoking on busier nights. She said that she is a nonsmoker but has to endure what
every one of these smokers blows into the common air. She said that she suffers from
stuffed sinuses, recurring colds, headaches, and tears caused by the smoke burning
her eyes. Her clothes smell like smoke constantly and she must wash her hair several
times to remove the smell of smoke. The only thing that separates her from a smoker is
that she does not have a smoker’s breath. She said that it is her choice to work at this
establishment, but it is not her choice to breathe in the chemical-filled air. Smokers
have rights, but so do nonsmokers. When someone else’s right infringes on her rights,
her health, and her way of life, she feels action needs to be taken. She said that many
people indulge in guilty pleasures, such a second piece of chocolate cake, that might be
harmful to their health, but this is a personal choice. Smoking does not sustain life and
has no medical value to anyone. If a bar can only maintain current clientele because
they allow smoking when others do not, then it probably was not a great venue in the
first place. She encouraged the Committee to support this ordinance, and added that
healthy people fuel a healthy society.
LeRoy Hunt, 1753 Horizon Lane, said that he appreciates and respects all the
comments that have been made. He said that he is beginning to think his family is
God’s chosen family, because he smoked heavily until 1963 and his wife succumbed to
a death caused by smoking several years ago. He knows that smoking kills, but the
nine children that they have are extremely healthy, and he is now healthy at 73 years of
age. He said that there was secondhand smoke in his home for 32 years, and the only
one it affected was the person actually smoking. He said that relating Indianapolis to
Cuba is probably not a good comparison, as Cuba is run by a dictator. He said that he
feels this ordinance is an attempt to impose one man’s will on the masses, and the
decision to smoke should be left to individuals. Smokers know the results and the
consequences that come along with their decision to smoke, but they should be allowed
the freedom to make their own choices.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 5
Bruce Fox, 1611 E. Vermont Street, stated that he is a resident of Councillor Keller’s
district. He said that he is a third-generation smoker and no one in his past or present
has ever had heart or lung problems due to secondhand smoke. He said that he began
smoking at age 21 and found out that he could actually read. He said that he stopped
smoking two or three years ago, but started again last October because he found he
could not read and concentrate on reading without smoking, and the smoking helped
him to stop living in a daze. He said that this ordinance would not allow him to walk
from his home downtown to the canal and around IUPUI while smoking. He said that he
smokes to combat attention deficit disorder (ADHD), and ADHD medication costs more
than a pack of cigarettes each day.
Rick Sutton, 856 Hoover Village Drive, stated that he is a resident of Councillor
Mansfield’s district. He said that he grew up in a house where a pack or a pack and a
half of cigarettes were smoked each day. He said that he has diminished lung capacity
now and it takes him much longer to get over even a minor cold. He said that he tried to
come down to the City-County Building twice in the last month and was forced to stand
in a long security line which stretched outside the building, which was essentially the
City-County Building’s smoking lounge. There were no less than 20 City-County
Building workers surrounding that entrance smoking, and he had to breathe that air in
order to stand in line to enter the building. He said that it is the Council’s obligation to
protect public health, which is governed by ordinance. He said that things such as exit
signs, light fixtures, and window placement are all governed by ordinances in order to
protect citizens and insure their safety. He said that there is no air handling system that
could clear a room this size. He said that he used to visit Smee’s Place, but could not
withstand the smoke, but he will now return knowing it is smokefree.
Greg Dixon, Marion County Libertarian Party vice chair and resident of Councillor
Cockrum’s district, said that he does not smoke and believes it to be a nasty habit, and
he agrees with the special interest groups that it is harmful to one’s health and
something needs to be done. However, it is also his opinion that intrusive government
regulation, a socialistic agenda, and an attack on personal freedoms, free enterprise,
small business, and private ownership are not the answer. He said that an answer is
needed, but this is not it. Why should this Council follow the lead of Fidel Castro and
socialist Cuba by regulating people’s lives? Why stop with the smoking ban? Why not
add a few more habits to this ban? He said that it is not the government’s responsibility
to ban bad habits. Proponents of this ban cannot have it both ways. If government can
ban smoking in private restaurants and bars, then government can ban smoking in
private homes, in principle. This is a can of worms not worth opening. He said that in
order to solve this problem, the Council should let time take its course. According to
statistics, smoking is on the decrease. Insurance companies should be allowed to
exclude coverage to individuals who smoke if they so desire. People should be allowed
to choose which restaurants to eat in and business owners should be allowed to cater to
their clientele’s wishes. He encouraged the Committee to oppose the proposal and
allow free enterprise to work.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 6
Karmen Booker, 7218 Tappan Drive, said that she smoked briefly as a teenager, but
has since chosen not to smoke. She said that secondhand smoke involves no choice.
She works for an employer who has provided a smokefree facility and she is grateful for
that. She said that in the past, smoking was allowed on airplanes, but it was eliminated
because of the threat to public health. She asked how much data is needed before
people realize secondhand smoke is harmful and people are dying from it?
Bill Smythe, president of the Indiana Amusement and Music Operators Association
(IAMOA), stated that he owns four local Claude & Annie’s restaurants and bars located
in Councillor Bowes, Randolph, Moriarty Adams & Salisbury’s districts. He said that he
presented information at a prior meeting, and it is misleading to say that this ordinance
will have no effect on bars, taverns, and the coin-operated amusement industry. He
said that a smoking ban will hurt coin-operated businesses by 20 to 25%.
Culver Godfrey, 907 Fairway Drive, stated that he is a resident of Councillor Mansfield’s
district. He said that he supports the ordinance and he believes extending this smoking
ban to cover bus stop shelters is a good idea. He said that he has often had to stand
outside a shelter in the cold, wind, and rain because the shelter was filled with smoke
and he could not breathe.
Brad Klopfenstein, state executive director for the Libertarian Party in Indiana, stated
that he ran in Councillor Abduallah’s Council district and is a resident of that area. He
said that there is a difference between public and private property. It is very appropriate
to ban parking on government and public property, as tax dollars pay for these
properties and they are shared by the entire community. But dictating to private
individuals what they do with their private businesses on private property opens up a
pandora’s box of dictatorship. He said that it was not the government who put up the
money to open these businesses, and their livelihood is not on the line if that business
fails. Free enterprise works and everyone makes choices every day. Part of being free
is being able to make responsible choices for one’s own self.
Scott Eder, owner of Harvester Bar and Grill at 5698 Brookville Road, said that he does
not know what the economic impact on his business will be, but he has asked his
customers, and even his nonsmoking customers are opposed to the proposal. He said
that he has gone to a lot of expense to install a great ventilation system, and he has
worked hard to build his business. He has five full-time employees and two part-time
employees, two of which have quit smoking in the last year working for him. He said
that this is his property and his building and it is hard for him to think he can be told
what to do inside those walls, when he is already very strictly regulated in other areas.
Mike Shanley, resident of Noblesville in Hamilton County, said that he would come to
Marion County more often and spend more time and money downtown if this ordinance
passes. He said that the evidence is overwhelming regarding health, safety, and
economics. He works for a company headquartered in California, and they have gone
smokefree and it has worked well for them.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 7
Mark Webb, attorney for the Marion County chapter of the Indiana Licensed Beverage
Association (ILBA), said that the ILBA opposes the ordinance because it will negatively
impact their businesses. He said that the studies that have been cited to report no
negative economic impact do not focus on what happens to a small business owner.
He said that the hospitality industry is a very competitive environment. While many
nonsmokers say they would frequent a place more often if it were smokefree, there is
no evidence that they would become regular customers. These businesses pay a 1%
food and beverage tax, which raised $16 million for the Capital Improvement Board last
year. He said that this ordinance would affect that revenue source.
Ann Mathioudakis, 2308 Galahad Drive, said that she has chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) as a result of exposure to secondhand smoke. She asked
if it is more important to protect businesses from failing or citizens’ health from failing.
She said that she plays bridge with a friend who is much worse than her, and her bridge
club visited Smee’s Place before they went smokefree and had to leave because of the
smoke, but have gone back since they went smokefree and really enjoyed the new
atmosphere. She said that she also loves to dance, but could not stay at a Legion Hall
function recently because of the smoky atmosphere. She said that the government
regulates seatbelts, which is a public safety regulation that some people would not use,
if it were not required by law.
Kelly Alley, Alliance for Health Promotion, said that she lives in Councillor McWhirter’s
district and believes this is such a contentious issue because it deals with a human
behavior. She said that secondhand smoke is more than a nuisance or bad habit. It is
a health hazard. It is in the same category as poisoning from radon, asbestos, and
benzene. It is a carcinogen that causes cancer in humans. She said that the
government stepped in to protect its citizens from radon, asbestos and benzene and did
not wait for people to decide on their own if it was harmful or not. There is no safe level
of exposure to secondhand smoke. She said that she is one of the 70% of Indianapolis
residents who would like to stay in a restaurant or bar without exposure to secondhand
smoke.
Allison Hines, student at Butler University, asked the Committee to remember her
generation when making this decision. She said that tobacco companies are targeting
young people in her generation and the encouragement from entities like the Council
not to smoke is being heard. She said that although many of her generation are
heeding this encouragement and choosing not to smoke, they are still not protected
because of the prevalence of secondhand smoke.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Talley left at 6:09 p.m.]
Rich Strong, director of environmental health and safety at IUPUI, said that he is a
resident of Noblesville who spends most of his time and money in Marion County. He
said that 15 to 17 years ago, information was clear that smoking is harmful. As a result,

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 8
all IUPUI buildings went smokefree, and last year the regulations were changed to
include no smoking within 30 feet of an entrance or exit. He said that there was
widespread support for banning smoking on the entire campus, but because smoking is
addictive, the leadership was concerned this would become a strong issue for some.
He said that smokers may have a right to smoke, but he should also have the right to
breathe clean air. He said that the government has regulated air pollution, underground
storage tanks, and hazardous waste in order to protect citizens. Over $500,000 is spent
each year to clean up asbestos. He commended the Committee for taking up this
issue. He said that he does not eat out much and has given up bars and comedy clubs
because of the smoke hazards, but would enjoy these luxuries. He added that the
entertainers in bar bands and comedy clubs are also not protected, but they should be.
Chair Mansfield stated that Councillor Talley had another engagement and had to leave,
asking her to extend his apologies to those still yet to speak.
Ray Baker, president of the Highland Kessler Civic League, said that he resides in
Councillor Gray’s district. He said at the Civic League’s last annual meeting, over 30
residents were in attendance to discuss the featured topic of this smokefree ordinance.
Over 75% of those present voted in favor of this ordinance, and a large portion of his
neighborhood supports the ordinance. He said that he is also pleased to report that
Councillor Gray stated that he supports the ordinance, as well. He said that when the
Committee hears that there is little support for this action, know that there is a very large
portion of the public that supports the ordinance.
Susan Wright, resident of Broad Ripple and Councillor Bradford’s district, said that it is
unfortunate that Councillor Bradford is not here tonight, because he does not support
the smoking ban, but many of his constituents such as herself fully support it. She said
that there was probably opposition to banning drunk driving also, but it was something
that needed to be done to protect the city’s citizens. She said that she has asthma and
cannot go to bars because of the smoke. She encouraged those who oppose the ban
to educate themselves on the impact of secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke does
not just cause cancer, but has an effect on many other illnesses and diseases. She
said that she believes that the right to breathe overrides any other right.
Moussa Cisse, 666 E. 25th Street, said that he represents the Community Resource
Network, which is an organization that helps African individuals assimilate themselves
to a new environment. He said that freedom means a lot to his people and they support
the ordinance. He said that there is a framed photograph of Bill Meyer at Wishard
Hospital where he is holding a large cigar, and this sends a mixed message. He
suggested that maybe a different picture without the cigar could be used.
Kathy Lisby, smoking cessation health educator at Wishard Health Services, stated that
she currently lives outside of the county while she is caring for her mother, but is
originally from the west side and plans to return to the city soon. She said that she is
convinced that her asthma comes from being a former smoker and she has made a

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 9
career of helping smokers quit. She said that Wishard gets 700 referrals a year, with
another 400 in outpatient classes. She said that many of these individuals became
addicted as children or teenagers. She said that smoking causes disease, disability,
and death. Whether a person is exposed to these carcinogens from smoking actively or
through secondhand smoke, it is dangerous. She said that many of the people she
works with can testify that a spouse or other loved one is sick also, even though they
have never smoked and were simply exposed to secondhand smoke. She said that it is
time for this type of ordinance.
Martin Bacon, general manager of the Slippery Noodle Inn, thanked Councillor Oliver for
visiting their establishment. He said that although he realizes smoking is bad for a
person’s health, this is a business issue. The Noodle is a bar and does not allow
children in their bar and have never forced any individual to come into their bar. He said
that 60% of their employees smoke, but even their nonsmoking employees prefer to
work in the smoking sections because the smokers tip better. He said that this is a
decision that should be market-driven and decided by the customers.
Joe Mazzola, resident of Columbus, Ohio, stated that he is in town for a conference and
wanted to attend the meeting to encourage the adoption of this ordinance. He said that
Columbus recently went smokefree, and things are going well there. There were a lot of
concerns about this change, which is normal. He said that he lives three blocks from a
favorite bar, and their business continues to thrive even after the ban. He said that he
recently took his nieces bowling, which is something he could not do previously
because of the smoky atmosphere in bowling alleys. He said that Columbus’ slogan
was “It’s about health and it’s about time.”
Holly Aprea, resident of Washington, D.C., stated that she is also in town for a
conference. She said that she grew up in a smoking household and has asthma as a
result and is prone to respiratory illnesses. She said that she worked nights in a
restaurant that was not smokefree to pay her way through college. She said that the
American Public Health Association and other organizations will not hold conferences in
cities that are not smokefree. She said that she hopes this ordinance passes and that
her city is soon to follow the example.
Kerry Manders, resident of Councillor Mansfield’s district, stated that he is an
independent Libertarian-leaning voter. He said that this is a difficult issue because of
the need to protect the welfare of citizens. He said that he does not go to bars because
of the smoking, but would love to visit the Noodle to listen to a local band play. He
believes that there are others who would come and fill the seats if bars were to go
smokefree. He added that he has concerns about the amendments made at the last
meeting and feels that smoking should be banned in public parks under shelters, and
any covered structures should still be included. He said that he believes the 10-foot
distance from entrances and exits was a good compromise, as entrances should be
open for pedestrians or emergency personnel without causing any health hazards. He

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 10
said that he personally supports the ordinance, but the group that he represents,
Crooked Creek Community, has not yet taken an official vote.
Ms. Mathioudakis stated that she just received a call from her fellow bridge player that
she testified about earlier who had a severe asthma attack and had to be rushed to the
hospital. This is just further confirmation that outside pollutants are hazardous to the
health of many of the city’s citizens.
Rita Albert, Glendale resident, said that she lost her mother to lung cancer and her
father has COPD and struggles to breathe. Her sister suffers from chronic bronchitis,
and she ended up quitting smoking because her children begged her to. She said that
she is a teacher, and back when she first started, very few had even heard of an
asthma attack taking place at school, but now hardly a day goes by that a child does not
suffer an asthma attack. She said that asthma is an epidemic related to smoking, and
smoking continues to be glamorized for children. She said that health bills related to
smoking-related illnesses have become horrendous and cost more than the loss of
revenue that might be experienced by a business.
Patricia D. Feliciano, 125 Beachway Drive, stated that her father died of cardiac arrest
and her mom, for whom she is the primary caregiver, is dying of emphysema, but
continues to smoke. She said that it is hard to watch her mother dying day after day.
She said that because she is responsible for her care, she is exposed to secondhand
smoke. She said that she has a group of friends that like to dance who cannot tolerate
smoke-filled bars enough to enjoy dancing in those establishments. She provided a
copy of an article posted on a website written by her dance instructor which explains
how she feels (attached as Exhibit B). She said that she used to be a waitress and was
prone to upper respiratory infections due to the exposure to secondhand smoke, and
she had to quit for the sake of her health. She asked the Committee to support
Proposal No. 45, 2005.
Bronson Frick, associate director of the national non-profit organization Americans for
Nonsmokers’ Rights, said that he is here to represent the national perspective. He has
been involved in smokefree workplace policy advocacy since Berkeley, California
enacted the first such policy in 1976. He said that hundreds of cities have voted to
enact smokefree ordinances, and another dozen or more are holding hearings currently.
He said that this is a mainstream trend, and all workplaces will eventually become
smokefree because of the occupational safety associated. He added that hospitality
workers have the highest exposure to secondhand smoke and the highest cancer rate.
Last month, the country celebrated the 15th anniversary of smokefree airlines, which his
organization helped to accomplish. At the time, that issue was very controversial and
was viewed as an impossible fight, but now no one questions it and it is taken for
granted that smoking should not be allowed on an airplane. He said that some of the
Libertarian Party’s top donors at the national level are the tobacco companies, and the
Indiana Licensed Beverage Association and the Restaurant and Hospitality Association
are long-time partners of Philip-Morris Tobacco Company. He asked then whose

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 30, 2005
Page 11
interests are these individuals who spoke on behalf of those organizations really
representing?
Karla Sneegas, Pike Township resident, stated that those who are fearful of losing
business are already losing business because of the hazardous atmosphere they
provide. She said that her daughter is a student at Indiana University in Bloomington,
and when they must pick her up or return her to school, they always choose to eat in a
Bloomington establishment, because they are smokefree. She said that her husband
has heart problems and they take great strides to choose smokefree venues for health
reasons.
Councillor Oliver said that he has taken time to visit some other bars besides the
Slippery Noodle unannounced. He said that most of the places he has visited have
seemed to make a conscious effort to meet the needs and desires of their customers,
including the nonsmokers, by providing the best possible ventilation that is on the
market today.
Councillor Abduallah said that he visited Washington, D.C. in early March and read an
article about Bangladesh, a population of over 10 million, which has passed a
smokefree ordinance. He said that the per capita income of Bangladesh residents is a
dollar a day, yet the fine for smoking is eighty cents. It is important to see the impact
around the world of those taking the right to sustain life seriously. He said that smoking
kills and he wants to take a murderer out of the community.
Councillor Bowes said that he appreciates all the public testimony the Committee is
hearing and encouraged citizens to keep speaking up. He said that he has received
some feedback on the amendment that was passed at the last meeting, and some are
asking for less restrictions still, while others are saying that eliminating some language
from the proposal watered it down too much. He asked the public to continue to let
Committee members know how they feel on this subject.
Josh Caplinger, resident, said that the overriding question is whether these properties
are public or private.
Chair Mansfield said that the next meeting is another public forum and will be held on
April 6, 2005 at 6:00 p.m. at the Warren Performing Arts Center on the east side of
Indianapolis. There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting
was adjourned at 7:11 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

April 21, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:03 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:22 p.m.
ATTENDANCE
ABSENT MEMBERS

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Jim Bradford
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley
AGENDA

PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, April 21, 2005. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:03
p.m. with the following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Greg Bowes, Jim
Bradford, Susie Day, and Scott Keller. William Oliver and Steve Talley arrived shortly
thereafter. Councillors Dane Mahern, Lincoln Plowman, and Joanne Sanders were also
in attendance.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
Chair Mansfield stated that this hearing is not a public forum like the previous four
hearings. She said that a brief presentation on the Indiana Air Monitoring Study, which
was commissioned by Indiana Tobacco Prevention and Cessation and was conducted
in conjunction with Bloomington, Indiana’s smokefree ordinance, will be presented this
evening. Following the presentation, she will open the floor for questions by Councillors
and discussion about possible amendments.
Mark Travers, researcher in the Division of Cancer Prevention and Population Sciences,
Roswell Park Cancer Institute, said that he has spent the last few years examining
indoor air quality in the hospitality industry and the impact of smokefree air laws. He
said that he has performed air monitoring studies around the world using state-of-the-art
equipment and has conducted the largest study ever conducted in this field. He said
that he was asked by Indiana Tobacco Prevention and Cessation and the Indiana
Academy of Family Physicians to lead a study for Indiana. The goals of the study were
to 1) assess the difference in air quality between Indiana bars and restaurants that allow
smoking and those that do not; 2) document the change in air quality after enacting a
clean indoor air law in Bloomington, Indiana; and 3) at least eight venues in three
Indiana cities (Bloomington, Indianapolis and Fort Wayne) were selected for air
monitoring to provide a broad range of size, location and type of venue. Mr. Travers
explained the process of measuring air quality and showed a TSI SidePak AM510
Personal Aerosol Monitor that is used to measure particles less than 2.5 microns in
diameter, which can easily be inhaled into the lung. He said that in comparison, a
human hair is 100 microns in diameter, and therefore, this machine has the capability to
measure very fine particles.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Oliver arrived at 6:05 p.m.]
Mr. Travers said that long-term repeated exposure to particulate air pollution, like that
experienced by workers in the hospitality industry, is known to increase the risk of
chronic respiratory disease and cardio respiratory mortality. Short-term exposure to

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 2
particulate air pollution, like that experienced by hospitality industry patrons, can
aggravate existing cardiovascular and pulmonary disease and increase the number of
persons in a population that become symptomatic, require medical attention, or die.
The concentration of particles in the air that they measure also serves as a marker for
the more than 4,000 chemicals emitted from burning cigarettes, over 250 which are
known to be toxic or carcinogenic. He showed real-time plots of samplings taken in
Bloomington before the clean indoor air law, and then again after the law passed
(shown in Exhibit A). He said that levels were low outdoors between venues and
particles were much higher in venues where smoking was allowed. He said that the
only place where the air quality was not markedly improved was in a venue where
smoking was observed as taking place and therefore not in compliance with the new
law. He said that the average amount of air pollution dropped from 347 micrograms per
cubic meter to 37 micrograms, which was an 89% improvement. If the one venue that
was not compliant was taken out of the equation, there was actually a 95%
improvement. The levels in the venues that were smokefree before the law was
enacted remained the same. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) set 15
micrograms per cubic meter as the average annual level and 65 micrograms per cubic
meter as the average daily level not to exceed in order to protect the public health. The
average fine particle levels before the law in Bloomington passed greatly exceeded the
EPA standards at 273 micrograms per cubic meter, but the post-law compliant numbers
were very close to the standards. He said that these findings were compared to
Indianapolis and Fort Wayne, and the highest levels were found in Indianapolis, where
there is no smokefree legislation. Fort Wayne, which has some restrictions in smoking
restaurants, had lower levels than Indianapolis. He provided a graph which showed the
comparison of Indianapolis air quality against Bloomington’s post-law air quality (shown
in Exhibit A), with levels 14 times higher in Indianapolis. He said that he has been
monitoring the air levels in this room while speaking, and for comparison sake, the air
quality level in this room is 2 micrograms per cubic meter. He said that from this study,
it is clear that Bloomington’s law is effectively protecting the health of workers and
patrons from the hazards of secondhand smoke, since indoor air pollution levels
dropped over 90%. He said that a similar policy removing secondhand smoke from
Indianapolis bars and restaurants would reduce worker and patron exposure to this
toxin and translate into improved Hoosier health.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Talley arrived at 6:11 p.m.]
Councillor Oliver asked if any sampling has been done in the homes of smokers and
non-smokers. Mr. Travers said that this study did not reach that far, but there have
been such studies done in the past. Councillor Oliver asked if he could receive some
information regarding this type of study and the levels found in homes, and how this
relates to medical visits for those who live in smoking homes versus those who live in
non-smoking environments. Mr. Travers said that he does not have that type of data
with him this evening, but can get it for Councillor Oliver. He said, however, that the
levels found in bars and restaurants are much higher than those found in a home,
simply because there is a much greater concentration of people smoking. He said that

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 3
with regards to hospitalization and medical visits, the Center for Disease Control (CDC)
has recommendations out to avoid smoking places for those who have heart conditions
or other existing respiratory conditions, whether it is in the home or in bars or
restaurants, because of the risk to their health. Councillor Oliver said that he spoke to a
health care provider who visits the home to see where exposure to this type of pollution
comes from. They do not investigate bars and restaurants, but find the environment in
the home to be a contributing factor. Mr. Travers said that it is true that exposure to
secondhand smoke is a well-established health hazard to children with respiratory
problems.
Chair Mansfield said that Councillor Abduallah has had a death in his family and needs
to leave early and would like to make a few comments before he leaves. She added
that Councillors Keller and Talley also have prior commitments and may need to leave
early.
Councillor Abduallah thanked Mr. Travers for sharing the results of this study, and said
that many of those findings further substantiate his suspicions that smoke does indeed
kill. He said that he continues to support Proposal No. 45, 2005 without wavering. He
said that as a Councillor, he is obligated to improve the quality of the City and
sometimes it takes tough decisions in order to do that. He said that he believes the
ordinance still lacks some teeth for him and should be stricter. He said that if the public
realizes the Committee is doing this for their safety, there will actually be more business
brought to some of these restaurants and bars. He said that the Committee should
have the fortitude to stand up and make this decision. He said that he is going to pay
his last respects this evening to an uncle who lost his life due to cancer, and he will do
all he can to support this life-saving ordinance and encouraged his fellow Councillors to
do the same.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Abduallah left at 6:20 p.m.]
Councillor Bradford asked what time of the year the pre-law samples were taken. Mr.
Travers said that the pre and post-law samples were taken a month apart. The pre-law
samples were taken in December and the post-law samples in January, just after the
law was enacted. Councillor Bradford said that it is his understanding that Ft. Wayne’s
ordinance is similar to the one introduced for Indianapolis, which pretty much bans
smoking everywhere. He asked why the pollution levels did not drop like Bloomington’s
did. Chair Mansfield said that Ft. Wayne’s proposal is actually much weaker, and
smoking rooms are allowed in restaurants. Bars do not have smoking restrictions. Mr.
Travers said that this is his understanding as well. Councillor Bradford asked why the
study only examined bars and restaurants and did not include other places of
employment, since these ordinances cover all workplaces, and bars and restaurants are
just a small part of the entire ban. Councillor Bradford said that law offices, accounting
companies, trucking companies, and taxis might have high levels since they would not
have the air movers and smoke eaters in place that a restaurant might. Mr. Travers
said that other workplaces typically have much lower levels, even without smoke eaters.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 4
He said that they focused on places that would have the greatest impact as a result of
the law. He said that many of the other workplaces Councillor Bradford mentioned are
already smokefree. He added that some of these workplaces are not necessarily public
spaces that experience a lot of foot traffic on a steady basis. He said that for this study,
they chose venues where there were a large number of patrons. Councillor Bradford
said it seems this ordinance goes after restaurants and bars more than other places of
employment. Mr. Travers said that he is not really familiar with what the intent of this
particular ordinance is and simply designed his study to provide statistics for
Bloomington. He said that the same improvement would be seen in other workplaces
that currently allow smoking.
Councillor Bradford asked if insurance premium costs and hospital visits dropped as a
result of the clean indoor air act in Bloomington. He said that it has been testified that
secondhand smoke is a large health problem, and it would seem this would be an
aspect to be reviewed. Mr. Travers said that he cannot answer that question as his
study is specific to air pollution. He said that it would, however, be an interesting study
to undertake.
Councillor Bradford said that it was reported in The Indianapolis Star that Mr. Travers
was paid $5,500 for this study, and he asked if this pay included Mr. Travers attending
the meeting this evening. Mr. Travers said that those were all costs associated with the
study, and also includes public appearances to talk about the findings.
Councillor Bradford said that earlier in this hearing process, certain health risks were
portrayed as the number two primary killer, yet the study reported in The Indianapolis
Star indicated that these same weight-related risks rank number seven. He said that his
concern is that studies are done, and then statistics change. Mr. Travers stated that
this data will not change and has been both published and peer reviewed. Councillor
Bradford said that he is sure that those who conducted the earlier studies that cited
weight-related diseases as the number two killer thought their data was valid at the
time, also. Mr. Travers said that he has not done any research in that area, so he
cannot speak to those results, but can only assure the Committee that this data is
extremely valid.
Councillor Keller said that the article to which Councillor Bradford is referring is a recategorizing of the way health risks are defined. It is not a matter of being inaccurate in
calculations, but a change in the way certain aspects are weighed. He said that the
number one preventable health risk is still tobacco smoke, and this did not change in
any way. He added that the Indiana Insurance Department does approve rates for
insurance premiums and do calculate health down to township levels. He said that it is
probably too soon to collect that data in Bloomington, since the ban just took place this
year, but it would be easily measurable in the future.
Councillor Bowes stated that it was a very long process drafting Proposal No. 45, 2005,
and both the Ft. Wayne and Bloomington ordinances were considered carefully during

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 5
this drafting. He said that the Ft. Wayne ordinance is not comprehensive, and in some
venues, both the non-smoking and smoking areas still share the same air space. He
said that this data shows specifically why it is important to have separate ventilation. He
asked Mr. Travers if when he did the study he took note of separate sections in the
same space and the air handling equipment in the space. Mr. Travers said that they did
not record ventilation systems and the presence of smoke eating equipment in this
particular study. He said that they have, however, looked at these issues in the past,
and found that it was common that even when this equipment was in place, it was often
not turned on or not maintained properly. He added that even if they are maintained
and running, they are not effective. He said that the companies that make these
machines claim that they remove 99% of fine particles, but the fine print shows that they
only remove a very small percent of certain particles. He said that if someone is
smoking near a patron, they will still be exposed to that person’s smoke before the
smoke reaches a smoke eater. Councillor Bowes asked if there are any studies that
show how a non-smoking area is affected by a smoking area sharing the same room.
Mr. Travers said that these studies have been done, and there is a great deal of
variability, depending on size of the room and height of ceilings, separation between the
sections, and ventilation systems in place. He said that in New York State, some
waivers were issued for bars that installed separately enclosed, separately ventilated
smoking rooms. He said that many of these rooms were found to be ineffective in
eliminating the pollution from the smoking rooms from entering the non-smoking areas.
He said that the law sounds good in theory, but doors are often left open, and in
practice, they are not good at eliminating smoke exposure in a non-smoking area.
Councillor Bowes asked if he can get a copy of these studies. Mr. Travers said that he
would be happy to provide such.
Chair Mansfield thanked Mr. Travers for sharing with the Committee. She said that
since the public forums, there have been many amendments discussed, and she would
like to open up discussion among Councillors regarding possible amendments. She
said that as a result of the forums, it is evident that some type of exemption needs to be
established for the bars and taverns, with a focus on the “mom and pop” neighborhood
taverns. She said that when she thinks of taverns, she normally thinks of alcohol, but
most taverns have food and alcohol sales at an approximate 50/50 ratio. She said that
most taverns have good lunch and dinner crowds where limited alcohol is sold, and then
a late-night drinking crowd. She said that this makes it difficult in looking at a
percentage of food sales to determine the definition of a “tavern.” She said, therefore,
that some are looking more at an age 21 cut-off instead in order to accommodate small
“mom and pop” establishments. She added that she is personally willing to make an
exception for certain private clubs that involve veterans, such as the VFW and the
American Legion.
Councillor Bradford said that he probably has more experience on this Council when it
comes to alcoholic beverage rules and regulations. He said that the 50/50 ratio for
taverns is probably incorrect. He said that most restaurants run around 15% of sales in
alcohol, and the rest of the taverns by law have to sell 20 to 25% in hot food,

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 6
sandwiches, coffee, soda, and milk. He said that many of these taverns and
restaurants employ people under the age of 21. The law recently was changed in
Indiana because of a shortage of people to work in the restaurant industry. The law
allows servers, hostesses, band musicians, and entertainers to be ages 18 to 21. He
said that he has approximately 30 locations in Broad Ripple that will opt to be over-21
establishments and eliminate their family rooms, because the family room business
does not pay their bills. He said that this would leave only a few places in Broad Ripple
that would cater to families and children, which would be his restaurant, Subway and
McDonalds, and possibly Jimmy Johns. He said that the high-end establishments like
Ruth Chris Steak House, Slippery Noodle, and St. Elmo’s Steak House might also
decide to be over 21, which would limit the exposure of children to this kind of history
and culture in the City. He said that the current ordinance also prohibits smoking on
any city or county-owned property, and therefore all the sidewalks in Broad Ripple will
have to become over 21. He said that every restaurant in Circle Centre Mall would
have to be smokefree because it is city-owned property. He said that he has concerns
about this proposal hurting the hospitality industry in his district. He said that the City
does not have a problem taking their cut of taxes that comes from the sale of cigarettes,
and when the amount of people who smoke drops, the Council will have to raise taxes
to make up for it.
Councillor Talley asked for clarification about 18 to 21-year-olds and asked if 18-yearolds can serve alcohol. Councillor Bradford said that exotic dancers, band members,
and servers are allowed at the age of 18 in bars. He said that the ordinance as written
would say that an 18-year-old could not work in a smoke-filled room. Chair Mansfield
said that the ordinance does not say that at this time, and this is a possible amendment
being considered. Councillor Bradford said that the Chamber of Commerce made
recommendations for an 18-year-old limit, in order to correspond with the law, since that
is the legal limit to smoke a cigarette and 18-year-olds are considered adults.
Councillor Keller said that Sec. 616-203 says that no smoking is allowed in an outdoor
seating area for a restaurant, yet Sec. 616-206 provides for outdoor cafes that have no
covering to be exempt. He asked for clarification of this. Councillor Bowes said that the
intent was to disallow smoking in an outdoor seating area for a restaurant, but the
exemption carves out some places without a roof to be exempt. He said that this is a
valid question, and possibly this section needs to be re-written to indicate that those
seating areas without any restriction to the sky can allow smoking. He said that the
interesting question would be that a bar might be designated smoking, but an outdoor
seating area might be designated non-smoking as per this ordinance, because of a roof.
He said that they need to make it clear that the outdoor seating area follows the indoor
regulations, and this would be an easy question to address by wording the proposal
differently. Councillor Keller said that those outdoor cafes would then be exempted
which do not have a roof, such as The Chatterbox. Councillor Bradford said that The
Chatterbox’s seating area is on the sidewalk and therefore public property. Councillor
Keller said that the reference to public property defines it as “in buildings” and therefore,
he does not think sidewalks apply. Councillor Bowes said that the intent was that a

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 7
government agency be smokefree. He said that the leasing language probably needs
to be clarified, so that it is clear that this language applies to the entity using the facility.
Councillor Bowes said that with regards to the age-based criteria, he was thinking age
21 because it was testified that smoking goes with drinking, and 21 is the legal drinking
age. He said that there have been questions raised about 18-year-olds working in
these establishments, and he would not want anyone to lose their job over something
this Committee does. He said that those currently working at age 18 in such an
establishment should be protected. He said that this 21-year-old requirement could
possibly be phased in over a three-year period, so that no-one who currently has a job
will lose it. He said that his personal preference is that smoking should not be allowed
anywhere where it will affect someone else and contribute to the air pollution. He is
trying to carve out an exemption so that smokers have an option to smoke in some
establishments, but that exemption should come at a price. The establishment will have
to make a choice, and should not be allowed to cater to both families and smokers.
Otherwise, there is no reason for any regulation at all. He said that the establishments
in Broad Ripple will have to make this choice like any other restaurant or bar in the
County. He said that restaurants are setting up family rooms all over the County, not
just in Broad Ripple, and they will also need to make a choice about which customers
they prefer to cater to, in order to protect children. Before deciding what age limit or
percentage of sales to use, maybe some research should be done as to how many
would actually be affected by the different scenarios. He said that his definition of a bar
or tavern is that the primary sales would be in alcohol, not food. He said that it has
been difficult to make that distinction between a bar and restaurant, because every
place where an alcohol permit is granted must have the ability to sell food. He said that
the easiest way would not be to exempt bars or restaurants at all.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Keller left at 6:58 p.m.]
Councillor Oliver asked with regards to enforcement, what happens when an owner
asks a patron not to smoke and they choose not to? Councillor Bowes stated that an
owner has many regulations to follow to run their establishment in an orderly way, and
asking the patron not to smoke is the owner’s only duty. He said that this is where the
owner’s obligation ends. He said that the concern is about the owner who jokingly asks
a patron not to smoke while flaunting the law.
Councillor Oliver said that he would like to see a study that shows the air quality in an
establishment that has both smoking and non-smoking areas. Councillor Bowes said
that Mr. Travers agreed to make these studies available.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Talley left at 7:04 p.m.]
Councillor Bradford said that State law already has a family establishment requirement,
and there has to be limited separation. A person should not have to walk through the
smoking section to get to the non-smoking section. He said that the separation allows

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 21, 2005
Page 8
approximately 3 feet on each side of the separation. In order to qualify, an
establishment must do at least $200,000 in food sales or 60% of the business in food
sales. He said that the State of Indiana has already defined a family restaurant. He
added that Marion County is only one out of 92 counties. With approximately 10,000
liquor permits in the State of Indiana, 10% of those permits are represented here in
Marion County. He said that this decision will affect Broad Ripple very directly. Unlike
downtown or Massachusetts Avenue, Broad Ripple does not get the infrastructure that
some of these other areas do because of grant qualifications, and they have had to pay
their own way. Now after paying their own way, these businesses are going to be told
how to run their business. He asked for clarification on Union Station and Circle Centre
Mall. Even though these are city-owned properties, the entities leasing the property
would not necessarily have to be smokefree if they are not a government agency. Chair
Mansfield said that this is correct, and this government-owned restriction was intended
for government business entities. Councillor Bowes said that the language surrounding
government-owned property and lessees needs to be cleared up to make it less
confusing.
Councillor Bradford asked about the Holiday Inn at Union Station and their awnings
overhanging their outdoor seating area. He asked if he was correct in understanding
that this awning area would have to be smokefree, but when they bring out large
parasols and umbrellas for their tables, these would not have to be. Councillor Bowes
said that some common sense would need to be used in these instances and the
ordinance cannot be written so particularly to legislate all the different scenarios that
might arise. He said that the general spirit of the ordinance is to protect the public
health. He said that these establishments would have to make a decision to be
smoking or non-smoking and comply with the intent of the law.
Chair Mansfield stated that the next Committee hearing will be on May 5, 2005 at 6:00
p.m. where some amendments are expected to be offered and considered at that time.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 7:22 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

February 24, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:33 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

7:49 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Greg Bowes
James Bradford
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS

AGENDA
THE SCIENCE OF SECONDHAND SMOKE - presentation by Dr. Andrew Hyland,
Rockville Park Cancer Institute
PRESENTATION - Charleta B. Tavares; Columbus, Ohio Councilwoman
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
“Postpone” until March 10, 2005
Vote: 7-0

CHILDREN’S HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, February 24, 2005. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at
5:33 p.m. with the following members present: Greg Bowes, James Bradford, Susie
Day, Scott Keller, William Oliver, and Steve Talley.
Chair Mansfield stated that the Children’s Health and Environment Committee was
established by the President of the Council to address a number of issues. She said
that other issues the Committee may look at in the future include lead poisoning, rental
housing, and juvenile programs to help prevent young people from ending up in the
Department of Corrections. She said that the smoke-free air issue is very important and
elicits many different opinions about what should ultimately be passed into law. She
said that in light of this, several meetings will be conducted where the different
viewpoints and positions, along with evidence to support them, will be shared. She said
tonight’s meeting will present some scientific evidence, and the second meeting,
scheduled for March 10, 2005, will feature presentations from individuals from
establishments in the community such as The Slippery Noodle and Nicky Blaine’s, as
well as John Livengood of Livengood & Associates, who represents many of the
restaurants and bars. Chair Mansfield said that in way of a brief introduction, she is the
elected Councillor for District 2 and has been selected to chair this new Committee.
Councillor Bowes, District 7, will serve as the vice-chair for the Committee.
THE SCIENCE OF SECONDHAND SMOKE - presentation by Andrew Hyland
Chair Mansfield introduced Dr. Andrew Hyland, a scientist who has worked extensively
in the area of smoke-free air, and has served as a resource and helped cities both
before and after the enactment of a smoke-free ordinance.
Dr. Hyland thanked the Committee for the invitation to come and share the findings of
the research he has done for the last ten years in this area. Dr. Hyland is an
epidemiologist in the Department of Health Behavior at Rockville Park Cancer Institute,
which is the oldest cancer institute in the country. One-third of the patients that come
into their hospital are there because of tobacco use, and his main job is to study the
effects of tobacco use and find ways to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated
with it. Dr. Hyland presented a slide show presentation entitled “Give Me Breathing
Room.” [Clerk’s Note: A full print-out of this presentation is on file in the Council office
with the original minutes of this meeting.]
Dr. Hyland said that smoke-free rules are needed because they clean up the air and
promote healthier individuals. He said that second-hand smoke is the cause of lung

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 2
cancer, heart disease, and other respiratory ailments. A smoke-free ordinance is one of
the best ways to combat these illnesses. An unintended consequence of smoke-free
rules is that they help smokers quit. He said that approximately a third of all lung
cancers in non-smokers are attributable to second-hand smoke according to the Center
for Disease Control (CDC). The CDC also has estimated that approximately 40,000
people die each year of heart disease that is attributed to second-hand smoke. He
referred to the case of Helena, Montana, which passed smoke-free regulations in June
of 2002. Six months later, these regulations were rescinded due to legal challenges.
He referred to a bar graph showing the significant decrease of hospital admissions for
heart attack during this six-month period when the regulations were in place, and the
subsequent increase to former rates after the regulations were rescinded. He said that
it is proven that second-hand smoke is a toxin which causes lung cancer and heart
disease, and nearly all people are exposed to second-hand smoke, making this a very
important public health problem. Policies restricting smoking in public places reduce
exposure to second-hand smoke, and he will address evidence to support that. He
stated that he will also address the main arguments against smoke-free regulations,
which are: loss of revenue for the hospitality industry, freedom of choice and smokers’
rights, governments deciding how business owners should run their businesses, and the
enforceability of the law.
Dr. Hyland said that cotinine is a metabulated nicotine, and when smoke is breathed
into the body, cotinine levels can be measured to mark exposure to smoke. He referred
to a graph showing levels of cotinine found in smokers and non-smokers, and noted that
the non-smokers’ exposure and levels of cotinine never go to zero. This data indicates
that over 90% of the population have been exposed to measurable levels of cotinine
and harmful smoke. He said that smoking restrictions in the workplace began over 20
years ago. Tobacco companies took the position that companies preferred to
“encourage individual workers to settle smoking issues with mutual respect for each
others’ legitimate rights and feelings.” The public relations arm for the tobacco industry
began in 1986 with the Tobacco Institute (which was disbanded in 1998) to try and
discredit some of the emerging scientific evidence to support the idea that second-hand
smoke causes disease. Dr. Hyland said that the idea of smoke-free workplaces
produces contentious debate with a lot of differing opinions, but the ultimate goal is to
provide workers with a safe and healthy working environment. There are almost 2,000
jurisdictions in the United States that have adopted some sort of smoke-free worksite
regulations, with a 14% increase just in the past year. The strongest increases have
been in the number of communities adopting comprehensive smoke-free regulations,
including bars. If some think these regulations are extreme, Bhutan, which borders
Nepal in the Himalayan mountains, actually made smoking illegal in November, 2004.
Currently there are 10 states that have smoke-free restaurants, bars and public places,
which covers 35% of the population. He said that Ireland became the first country to go
smoke-free in March 2004, with Norway and Cuba following suit, and others such as
Sweden, Scotland, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand now debating such
regulations. Dr. Hyland said that these increases in smoke-free regulations have
resulted in a decrease of cotinine levels in non-smokers over the past five years.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 3
Dr. Hyland said that he helped the state of New York, where he spent most of his life,
with their Clean Indoor Air Amendment, which became effective July 24, 2003. This act
requires all indoor public places, including bars and restaurants, to be smoke-free. He
said that real-time air samplers were used to measure air quality and register fine
particles less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5), which are invisible to the human eye and easily
inhaled deep into the lungs, to see if the pollution levels actually went down after the
regulations became effective. He said that studies found that levels of indoor air
pollution decreased by 93% in 14 bars and restaurants in western New York. Thirteen
of those 14 locations tested were completely compliant and smoke-free, and only one
was cheating and not in compliance. Dr. Hyland said that the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) has a ruling that states that an average annual exposure level of 15
PM2.5 is dangerous to human health, and some of the levels of these bars and
restaurants were at levels of 600 to 1,300 PM2.5, which is extremely harmful.
Unfortunately, when places go smoke-free, those locations do not zero out, especially in
establishments where cooking is going on. He said that other locations, such as pool
halls, bingo halls, and bowling alleys, were also tested and found to decrease, as well.
Dr. Hyland stated that a study was conducted taking air samples in 61 venues in eight
large cities, three with smoke-free bars and restaurants (Buffalo, Los Angeles and New
York City) and five cities without smoke-free regulations (Baltimore, Washington D.C.,
Philadelphia, Hoboken, and Galveston). He said that there was an 83% difference in
harmful PM2.5 levels in the cities with smoke-free bars, assessed from March to July,
2004. Dr. Hyland stated that another study was conducted in Hartford, Connecticut,
with samples taken in restaurants and bars on March 25 and April 23, 2004, before and
after a smoking ban was imposed on April 1st. He said that the results were basically
the same, with a 75% reduction in indoor air pollution.
Dr. Hyland said that other solutions have been suggested, such as better ventilaton or
smoking booths. He said that these options do not seem to work. For ventilation to
bring levels to an “acceptable” risk, the system would need enough air exchange
moving through ventilation systems that would create tornadic-like winds, so this option
is not really feasible. Others have suggested waivers to exempt certain establishments
where going smoke-free would cause undue economic hardship and where they could
present a plan to decrease smoke levels. He said that they measured the air quality in
establishments that received a waiver, and the air pollution was more than 10 times
what the EPA says is dangerous. He said that some establishments had separately
enclosed smoking areas, and it was found that the levels of air pollution in the nonsmoking areas of these locations were just as bad as those in bars and restaurants
where smoking was on-going. He said that establishment owners also found that they
needed more equipment and had higher electric bills to try and maintain smoke-free
areas, but the ventilation and extra cost did not address the problem. Dr. Hyland said
that another argument against the smoking ban was the threat of economic doom. He
said that over 100 studies were conducted to measure the economic effect. Of those
100 studies, 21 used controlled, reliable data in eight countries and over 30 different
states or provinces. Not a single one of these 21studies concluded that smoke-free

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 4
laws were bad for business. The only studies that concluded that smoke-free laws were
bad for business were conducted or paid for by the tobacco industries. About one
percent of the population of New York works in a restaurant, and percentages in
employment cycles changed very minimally after the ban, and did not decrease any
more from month to month than it did before the law was enacted. Therefore, the
decreases probably were not attributable to the smoke-free law. He said that people
are actually shocked to learn that there are actually more bars now in New York after
the law than there were before the law. He said that although employment in standalone bars has gone down slightly, there are actually more liquor licenses being issued.
He said that the increase has been about 3.5%, with an addition of approximately 500
bars in the state. He added that alcohol excise tax collections have actually increased
and not decreased, as was predicted after the passage of the smoke-free law.
Dr. Hyland stated that there were concerns that compliance with the new law would be
low, but that did not happen in New York State. He said that there was concern that the
restaurant owners would have to become “smoke police,” but that has not really
happened either, and most people have adapted to the rules, even if they are not happy
about them. He said that most people, when reminded by the restaurant or bar staff
that smoking is not allowed, are quick to comply. Issues only seem to arise when
restaurant or bar owners blatantly choose not to comply and therefore encourage noncompliance in their patrons.
Dr. Hyland said that the largest community-based smoking cessation study that has
ever been done in the United States was funded by the National Cancer Institute. A
group of 20,000 smokers from 20 communities were identified and tracked over time. In
1993, only a quarter of these smokers reported that their worksite was completely
smoke-free, and when surveyed eight years later, that number had tripled. Therefore,
the trend seems to be moving toward smoke-free work environments. Also, during this
study, they found that these smokers were twice as likely to quit smoking when their
workplaces no longer allowed smoking. Even those who continued to smoke began
smoking fewer cigarettes when their worksites went smoke-free. Smoke-free work
policies seem to have become the norm rather than the exception. The rate of clean air
adoption is increasing, and comprehensive smoke-free regulations are the only proven
way to protect workers from second-hand smoke. Smoke-free rules clean up the air,
improve health, discourage smoking, and increase cessation of smoking, yet have not
really devastated the hospitality economies.
Councillor Keller said that he has heard that tobacco smoke has approximately 4,000
gases, and he asked if this is peculiar to tobacco leaf versus other plant materials. Dr.
Hyland said that anything that is burnt, even paper or lettuce, will produce chemicals in
the air. Hazardous smoke particles are not specific to cigarettes. Councillor Keller said
that many life-long Indianapolis residents may remember a meat-packing firm called
Stark and Wetzel. Marsha Stark of Indianapolis ran the Tobacco Institute in
Washington, D.C. until she got lung cancer from smoking cigarettes. She then spent
the last two months of her life remembering and documenting the joking around she had

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 5
done regarding the studies that proved smoking was dangerous to one’s health. He
said that this documentation is very interesting to read.
Councillor Bradford said that this ordinance is a bit different from New York’s ordinance,
because it is a County ordinance and is not State-wide. He said that this concerns him
more than a State-wide ordinance would, because Marion County has already lost
businesses to surrounding counties, and a no-smoking ordinance could promote more
loss of businesses to connecting counties which do not regulate smoking. He added
that the 50-foot language in the proposal is much stricter than the ordinance passed in
New York. He said that in looking at the graphs in the presentation, it seemed that only
the liquor licenses in New York City increased, as opposed to other counties, and this
may be more attributable to the tourism and popularity of the City rather than the
smoking ban. He added that Dr. Hyland testified that the studies funded by the tobacco
industry might have skewed data, yet in Dr. Hyland’s resumé, it seems most of his grant
funding comes from the American Cancer Society, and therefore, it might be fair to say
that his studies might also be a bit skewed. Dr. Hyland said that his studies have also
gone through a Peer Review process and met very strict scientific standards and were
published by Peer Review publications. Councillor Bradford stated that they were,
however, still funded by the tobacco industry’s opposition. Dr. Hyland said that this is
correct.
Chair Mansfield said that the standards required for Peer Review require that certain
scientific principles have to be followed. Anyone can fund a study, but for it to be
accepted by Peer Review and published is another story. Dr. Hyland stated that this is
correct and Peer Review studies are held to a very strict, rigorous standard. He said
that the National Cancer Institute funds many studies, but there is no control over what
studies get published after a rigorous scientific review.
Councillor Bradford stated that he is sure the tobacco industry also hires professional
scientists and has high standards for their studies as well. He said that there are
definitely people on both sides of this issue, and while the proposal may ultimately pass,
he would like to see some changes to the original ordinance to make it more
reasonable. He said that he hopes the Committee can come up with something with
which Indianapolis residents and businesses can live. He said that he understands the
health risks, as his father died from smoking, and he owns a smoke-free restaurant.
However, he has a deck behind his restaurant, and he sees no reason his patrons
cannot sit out back to eat and smoke if they so wish, since it is not an enclosed space.
He said that the current ordinance with its 50-foot restriction would not allow that. He
added that the New York State smoking ban is different than a County-wide ban, and he
feels Marion County will lose businesses to surrounding counties if this ban is enacted.
Dr. Hyland stated that 12 counties in New York had smoke-free restaurant regulations
before going State-wide. He said that they conducted surveys, and only about 5% of
the population said that they would go outside of the county to dine so that they could
smoke. Contrary to that, over one-third of the population said that they would avoid
going someplace because smoking was allowed and the environment was unpleasant

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 6
and harmful to their health. He said that some particular venues might suffer, but
overall, there does not seem to be much loss in patronage.
Councillor Bowes asked if the grant-funded work Dr. Hyland has done has been
accepted by the Peer Review and published. Dr. Hyland said that this is correct.
Councillor Bowes asked if the publications are neutral or if they are also funded by one
side or the other. Dr. Hyland said that the Peer Review process for getting work
published is more rigorous than being awarded grant funding. He said that when an
article is submitted to a journal seeking publication, the editors contact experts in that
field to review the article on its scientific merits. If the article is not scientifically worthy,
it does not get published. He said that most journal funding is subscription and
advertising based.
Councillor Oliver stated that tobacco growers, producers, and manufacturers pretty
much dominated what was said about cigarettes earlier on and established what was
accepted as truth about the links between tobacco use and lung cancer. Many years
later, almost all of the studies are showing facts that do not coincide with earlier
thoughts and beliefs. He asked about the monitoring device that is used and asked if
samples taken in areas where smoking is allowed exceed the EPA standards for air
quality. Dr. Hyland said that the EPA indicates that an average of 15 micrograms per
cubic meter over the course of a full year is harmful to a person’s health. If a person is
exposed to high levels only for a day and has no further exposure the rest of the year,
this would not meet that threshhold. However, if a person is working 20% of their
week’s hours in a smoking environment, being exposed at levels of 500 to 1,000
micrograms per meter, then this type of exposure would put their health at risk.
Councillor Oliver said that a couple of weeks ago, the County issued an air quality alert
which detailed the impact of those at risk, and therefore he understands the need to
protect citizens from these dangers.
Councillor Bradford said that some of these journals in which Dr. Hyland’s studies were
published seem to be pretty liberal, and so he is not sure the publishing is as unbiased
as presented. He added that the proposal as written here bans smoking on public golf
courses. He asked how smoking can be enforced between the 17th and 18th hole on a
golf course and asked how enforcement works for New York. He said that as he reads
the ordinance, the Sheriff’s Department and Police Department write citations, and City
Legal and the Prosecutor’s Office will follow up on the violations. Councillor Bowes said
that the County Prosecutor’s Office only prosecutes crimes, and no crime is being
created by this ordinance. He said that only the City Prosecutor, who is within the
Corporation Counsel’s office, would bring these violations through the court system if it
was needed. He said that he anticipates that these citations would be similar to traffic
tickets, health code violations and zoning violations. All police officers and Sheriff
deputies already have the authority to write citations and issue tickets to anyone who
commits an ordinance violation under any part of the City Code. He said that there are
other inspectors that in the course of their work would have the authority to also issue a
violation. Councillor Bradford asked if he is on the golf course, and someone is

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 7
smoking a cigarette, who would enforce that. He asked if it would have to be an
inspector or officer or if it might be private security personnel. He asked how much the
fee would be for a violation, and asked how the issue is enforced in New York.
Councillor Bowes said that discussing fees is really for a later discussion when the
Committee gets into the meat of the proposal. Dr. Hyland stated that the ban in New
York is generally self-enforcing and it is the responsibility of the proprietor in a
restaurant to inform the customer that smoking is not allowed. In New York and most
other places that have adopted a smoke-free law, the enforcement is done by the
Health Department through routine inspections and in response to complaints. He said
that usually with the first violation, a letter goes out and it is usually responded to
quickly. If there are repeat violations, there are fines assessed. Councillor Bradford
asked if the individuals or the business owners are cited. Dr. Hyland said that either
can be fined. Councillor Bradford asked if Health Department employees had to be
increased to accommodate this change. Dr. Hyland said that there are no additional
resources, and they have been able to easily handle it with existing staff and routine
inspections. Councillor Bradford asked who is responsible for enforcement in
Indianapolis, since the Health Department is separate from City law enforcement
personnel. Chair Mansfield said that the Committee will delve into these particulars
later in discussions, but this is simply an informational meeting on what other cities are
doing.
Chair Mansfield said that she will accept questions from the public as they relate
specifically to Dr. Hyland’s presentation. She added that there will be several meetings
held with full public hearings at different locations in the community, where parking is
more accessible, and where more time can be devoted to input from the public.
Melinda Smith, graduate nursing student, asked in light of reliance on revenue from
tobacco products, if Dr. Hyland has tracked the decrease in sales of tobacco products in
New York. Dr. Hyland said across all states, tobacco consumption is going down, and
there are many factors that contribute to that, only one being smoke-free workplaces.
He said that it would be hard to quantify how many less cigarettes are being consumed
and how much revenue loss as a result is actually due to the smoking ban. He said that
he believes the thought that society relies heavily on the sale of tobacco products is a
myth for most states. Money spent by smokers in Indiana, New York and Wyoming get
exported to North Carolina and Kentucky, and other major tobacco-producing states. If
smoking were abolished today, the money spent in Indiana on cigarettes would not
disappear, but rather get re-distributed elsewhere on other items.
Jeremy Townsley, adjunct faculty, Psychology Department, Indiana University Purdue
University of Indianapolis (IUPUI), asked if the tobacco industry study articles were also
subject to an academic Peer Review process or simply an internal publication. He
asked if Dr. Hyland could verify the vested interest of the anti-smoking groups versus
the tobacco groups. Dr. Hyland said that of the 100 studies they looked at, there were
dozens of tobacco industry-affiliated studies, and only one of them was published in a
Peer Review journal. The others were internal reports that were issued, and the quality

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 8
of the studies were poor, regardless of where they were funded. Dr. Hyland said that
with regards to vested interest, he is volunteering his time to be here and does not get a
dime out of sharing, and his only motivation is to try and improve public health.
Danny Sparks, a 20-year Department of Public Works employee, asked if health
insurance premiums will go down with the passage of a smoke-free law. Dr. Hyland
said that they did not research this, and he unfortunately does not have any solid data
as evidence, but it is certainly something that should be considered. Mr. Sparks said
that his insurance costs go up every year, and he would think such a policy would lower
the cost. Chair Mansfield said that hopefully this question can be addressed with
individuals from the insurance companies at future meetings. Mr. Sparks asked if
incidents of drunk driving also increased since liquor licenses and the number of bars
increased due to the smoking ban. Dr. Hyland said that at basically the same time this
ban went into effect, the blood alcohol content level was lowered, and it would be very
hard to calculate to which event any increase in drunk driving incidents was attributed.
Mark Webb, Indiana Licensed Beverage Association, asked when the amount of excise
taxes on alcohol sales slightly increased, if the study differentiated between the type of
alcohol purchased, as to whether it was purchased at carry-out places or eat-in places.
Dr. Hyland said the data was aggregate sales, and there is no way to separate that out,
but the large majority of alcohol excise tax collections in New York come from offpremise sales, such as from supermarkets. Mr. Webb asked if the studies were able to
make any correlation with regards to those smokers who were able to quit after the ban,
and the amount of smoking they were doing before the ban. Dr. Hyland said that those
that quit seemed to be both light and heavy smokers, and many heavy smokers
decreased their intake after the ban, even though not quitting completely.
Chair Mansfield thanked Dr. Hyland for volunteering his time to share with the
Committee this evening.
PRESENTATION - Charleta B. Tavares; Columbus, Ohio Councilwoman
Chair Mansfield introduced Charleta B. Tavares, Councilwoman from Columbus, Ohio.
She said that Columbus is a somewhat comparable city to Indianapolis, and
Councilwoman Tavares recently helped to pass a non-smoking ordinance in that city.
She said that Councilwoman Tavares has also served as a State Representative with
the Ohio General Assembly. Chair Mansfield added that she attended a forum on
second-hand smoke at Martin University this morning where Councilwoman Tavares
shared, and it was a pleasure to hear Councilwoman Tavares’ thoughts and views.
Councilwoman Tavares thanked the Committee for the opportunity to share some of her
experiences on adopting a Clean Indoor Air Act in Columbus. She said that the
population of Indianapolis and Columbus are very similar, with 750,000 to 780,000
residents in Columbus. While Indianapolis is governed by a City-County Council,
Columbus has a smaller City Council. She said that the Council and Mayor of

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 9
Columbus believe that the Clean Indoor Air Act is in the best interest of the city’s
citizens. She said that the government’s primary responsibility is to protect the health,
safety and welfare of its residents. Councilwoman Tavares chairs the Health, Housing
and Human Services Committee for the Columbus City Council and takes her
responsibility very seriously. Although the smoke-free ordinance was just adopted in
July, 2004, the City and County worked on this issue back in 1993, and the County and
City Health Board adopted regulations in 1994. In an attempt to build consensus and
develop a compromise, an exemption for bars was created. Subsequently, a lawsuit
was filed, and the Environmental Court judge ruled that the Health Board overstepped
their bounds and did not have the authority to exempt certain groups or businesses, and
the rule was thrown out. Following that, the State Legislature decided that Health
Boards could adopt rules for every other category of health except for tobacco. Such
rules would need action by the legislative body of that particular community. Then in
2003, Columbus began looking at the issue again. Toledo, Ohio in the northwest
quadrant of the state adopted an ordinance that was pretty comprehensive, and a statewide organization called the Tobacco Use Prevention and Control Foundation wanted to
assist other communities in adopting smoke-free ordinances. Columbus received a
grant to do outreach and communication to build consensus around a smoke-free city
ordinance. The outreach was led by many groups and the coalition was broad-based,
made up of tri-chairs represented by the president of the Central Ohio Breathing
Association, a physician who had initated a smoke-free foundation, and a bishop from
the Church of God. This coalition led the community forums and took testimony both for
and against, and then submitted a proposal to the Health Committee as their best idea
of what the City of Columbus should adopt. The proposal included at 50-foot perimeter
requirement and made no exemptions for any business in the community. That was the
starting point and the draft that was used for public hearings by the Committee.
Councilwoman Tavares stated that the amended ordinance was adopted on July 28,
2004, and testimony was given by over 150 people representing the hospitality industry,
tobacco industry, individual businesses, faith community, parents, asthma sufferers,
health community, etc. She said that the Committee studied the issue extensively, and
of the seven at-large Council members who make up Columbus’ City Council, they
adopted the ordinance with five members supporting the proposal, one against, and one
unable to attend the final vote due to a death in the family. She said that Columbus’
ordinance applies to all bars, restaurants, workplaces and public places. She said that
the final ordinance did not include the perimeter language and instead only banned
smoking near the ingress and egress of a building, windows and ventilation systems.
The ordinance makes an exemption for private clubs for members only with no outside
sales or outside individuals. These clubs have no workers, have a D-4 non-profit liquor
license, and are open to members only. The law was passed on July 28, 2004, and
shortly thereafter, the hospitality industry circulated petitions to place a referendum on
the November ballot to rescind the law. Sufficient signatures were collected, and the
language was placed on the ballot. The smoke-free ordinance was upheld by a 55.6%
vote in favor of retaining the law. She said that the Health Department is the lead
agency for enforcement, but other entities, such as code enforcement officers and

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 10
safety forces, can issue citations. Councilwoman Tavares said that the Health
Department has conducted forums and provided information packets since the law was
upheld and the implementation date for the ordinance was January 31, 2005. [Clerk’s
Note: A sample information packet is on file in the Council office with the original
minutes of this meeting.]
Councilwoman Tavares said that Columbus’ program is a complaint-driven system, and
there is a hotline for people to call to report establishments where smoking is taking
place. The fine goes against the establishment, and not against the individual smoker.
Those who are licensed to do business and must comply with other regulations
shoulder the responsibility, and the fine of $150 per incident is levied against the owner
of the establishment. She stated that the majority of the establishments in the
community are complying. There is not 100% compliance, and there are some
establishments who are openly protesting the ban. She said that an initial complaint
results in a letter from the Health Department, and the second complaint is followed by
a citation being issued and a fine assessed. She stated that approximately 1,900 cities
and towns across the United States have clean indoor air or smoke-free ordinances.
She said that the United States needs to be a leader in protecting their citizens and
show that they care by setting an example for other countries. The best solution would
be to have a state-wide law, but waiting on the state legislature means that more people
will suffer and some may die before the residents are protected from this health hazard.
Having served as a state legislator, she knows that it is a much more difficult process to
get a state-wide law passed. The local body had concerns about being pre-empted by
the state legislature, but by being the capital of Ohio and the largest city, they felt they
could lead the movement and encourage others to follow their example. In the county
of Franklin where Columbus is located, there are 16 municipalities, and approximately
seven of those have now moved towards adopting smoke-free legislation to create a
level playing field for residents and businesses.
Councilwoman Tavares said that some within the ventilation industry came forward with
ideas about how they could clean the air. However, the technology does not exist today
to clean carcinogens out of the air. The air can be cleared of the annoying odor or the
smoke that burns the eyes, but the carcinogens remain. A spokesperson for the
National Association of Heating, Cooling and Ventilation Systems shared that there is
no current technology that can actually clear the air of these dangerous particles. She
said that until someone comes up with that technology, it is the government’s
responsibility to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents in other ways.
Councillor Talley agreed with Councilwoman Tavares that elected officials have the
primary responsibility of providing a safe environment for citizens to raise and educate
children. He asked if the enforcement agent has to personally witness a violation of the
code in order to issue a citation. Councilwoman Tavares said that complaints are
usually called into the hotline. Upon the first complaint, a letter is sent, and there is
generally compliance after a letter goes out. While there are a few establishments who
are blatantly disregarding the law, the overwhelming majority of businesses want to

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 11
obey the law. If there are other complaints, a health inspector will visit the
establishment. They do not have to witness first-hand the offense, as some patrons are
getting quite crafty and, in the absence of ashtrays, are extinguishing their cigarettes in
Altoid mint tins, which has been discovered by Health Department workers. Councillor
Talley asked if the $150 fine would be assessed five times if five people are smoking in
an establishment, or if that would only be considered one violation. Councilwoman
Tavares said that this would be considered one violation.
Councillor Oliver said that cigarettes contain elements that make it addictive, and now
there are many entities that make it unlawful to smoke cigarettes. Theatres and
airplanes have already banned smoking, but there are some who inadvertently light up
out of force of habit. Some say that this is a criminalization of a lifestyle. Citing a
business owner instead of the individual is a concern. There may be individuals who
cause a disturbance when asked to refrain from smoking, and could chase other
customers away as a result. This ordinance might hold proprietors hostage resulting in
the removal of their license, even though they are trying to comply. He said that he
completely understands the addiction, as he was once addicted; therefore, trying to
make a customer comply could be quite difficult in some cases. Councilwoman Tavares
said that the experience so far for Columbus has been very high compliance. The
establishments in the community are complying with the law, as has been evident in the
New York experience. She said that just as bar or restaurant owners have other
regulations they must enforce, such as underage drinking, health standards, and not
serving those who have had too much to drink, this will simply be an additional
responsibility that goes along with the standards for receiving and keeping a food
service or liquor license. She said that most business owners comply with whatever
rules and regulations they are required to abide by as a condition of their license to
operate. Most patrons, subsequently, comply with whatever conditions the
establishment has with regards to service, such as “No shoes, no shirt, no service,”
which is not even a State law. If an establishment owner has a disregard for the law
themselves, then they have given carte blanche to their patrons. She said that there
has been overwhelming compliance and people have risen to expectations and the
phone is not ringing off the hook with complaints. She said that there have been no
incidents reported such as Councillor Oliver spoke about, but if a patron becomes
belligerant or will not comply, law enforcement could be called, just as if any other
regulation in the restaurant was being broken.
Councillor Bowes referred to Dr. Hyland’s presentation regarding other jurisdictions that
have passed some type of smoke-free ordinance, and the number of places that have
made bars smoke-free is much smaller than the locations that have passed ordinances
which only cover workplaces, restaurants and other public places. He asked why
Columbus chose to include bars in their smoke-free ordinance. Councilwoman Tavares
said that the whole motivation for this issue was to focus on the health issue for
workers. She said that they felt that leaving out bars and not providing the same
protection for those workers was discriminatory, valuing one group of workers over
another. She said that some people choose to work in bars and restaurants for

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 12
convenience or because they have to work two jobs, and can only find part-time jobs in
restaurants and bars with hours that do not conflict with their full-time jobs. She said
that many are college students living off tips and working their way through college.
She said that the Columbus City Council did not want to say that these persons’ health
was not as important as everyone else’s. She said that the passed ordinance simply
asks people to step outside. What they do to their own body is their responsibility, but
when burning a cigarette impacts the health of others, that is when it is the
government’s responsibility.
Councillor Keller said that it may not be enough time to conduct a proper study, but he
asked if in listening to bar and restaurant owners, what they are saying about increases
or decreases in business. Councilwoman Tavares said that she is hearing both sides,
some saying there is a slight increase, some that there is a decrease. She said that
other cities adopting ordinances have shared that there is generally a dip in the first few
months after the ordinance passage, but then a bounce back to a more positive level,
with people coming into bars and restaurants that would not come before due to a
smoky atmosphere.
Councillor Bradford said that the ordinance in the packet of information provided seems
similar to the one before this Committee. He said that the ordinance passed by
Columbus references a statement from the CDC that “between 38,000 and 62,000 nonsmoking Americans die every day from exposure to second-hand smoke,” and that
“non-smoking workers chronically exposed to second-hand smoke are on the average
of one-third or more likely to get lung cancer than those who are not exposed to it.” He
asked if there are any death certificates prior to the ordinance passage in Franklin
County that refer to second-hand smoke as the cause of death. Councilwoman Tavares
said that she has not checked with the Health Department and does not know the
answer to that.
Councillor Bradford stated that he is very concerned with the 50-foot rule. In Broad
Ripple, which is in his district, a person cannot go 50 feet without being at another bar
or restaurant, and there would be nowhere for these people to go to smoke.
Councilwoman Tavares said that Columbus did not pass the 50-foot rule, even though it
was in the initial proposal. She said that the only regulations are that smoking cannot
be done within the egress or ingress of a building or near a window or ventilation
system. She said that this ordinance is an indoor ordinance and would not include
outdoor public spaces such as sidewalks. Councillor Bradford asked how Columbus
decided they could not discriminate between bars and restaurants, but yet could
discriminate between private and public clubs. Councilwoman Tavares stated that
these are private men’s clubs for members only with no employees. She said that these
establishments have D-4 liquor licenses and serve themselves, and therefore have no
employees to be protected. Councillor Bradford said that this is different in the State of
Indiana, and a bartender’s permit is needed to serve alcohol and they could not serve
themselves.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 13
Councillor Bradford stated that he owns a restaurant located on the Monon Trail, that is
basically a carry-out restaurant. Many of his patrons like to take their food out onto a
deck behind the restaurant and eat. He said that without hiring additional help he
cannot monitor those people outside on the deck while he is inside serving other
customers. He said that he would then become responsible for these individuals
smoking, when he has no means to control it. Issuing a citation to the business owner
instead of the individual would also give the opportunity for an employee with a grudge
to report incidents and complain in order to get back at an employer. He said that he
continually finds cigarette butts on his deck or in the trash cans outside that have been
left there after his restaurant is closed, and he has no control over this. Councilwoman
Tavares said that the Columbus ordinance would not include an outdoor patio and
would only cover the areas of the deck immediately outside an open window, a
ventilation system outside vent, or at the entrance to the restaurant. Councillor Bradford
stated that the Indianapolis proposal, as written, includes 50-feet restrictions from the
building and would therefore include this deck area.
Chair Mansfield said that many have expressed a concern about letting businesses
decide for themselves whether or not to allow smoking. Councilwoman Tavares said
that the Columbus Council heard the same comments about a free marketplace and
letting business owners dictate their own parameters as to how they do business and do
what is in the best interest of their customers and employees. She said that she
reminded her colleagues that before there were child labor laws, businesses decided
how long children were going to work. If left up to the business community, society
probably would have still had child labor for many years. There are other similar type
issues, such as opening up establishments to every member of the public and not just
to certain members of the population. Councilwoman Tavares said that this is why
government has the responsibility to look out for the common good. Smoking cigarettes
is still legal, and an individual can make their own decision as it relates to their own
health. However, when it impacts the health and lives of others, then the government
has a responsibility to protect those who do not smoke and have to work in
establishments which allow smoking. She said that this is a public health and safety
issue.
Councillor Bradford said that while he understands the impact on health of second-hand
smoke, there could also be a situation in a restaurant where someone drinks too much
at dinner and then might hurt or kill someone, either by a violent act or drunk driving
incident because of excess drinking. Chair Mansfield said that this type of situation
would be conjecture, and second-hand smoke has a direct and immediate impact,
whereas this other situation is not a foregone outcome. Councillor Bradford asked if
anyone can show him a death certificate in Marion County that lists the cause of death
as second-hand smoke. Chair Mansfield said that she cannot. Councilwoman Tavares
said that the federal government has indicated that approximately 53,000 people die of
second-hand smoke annually. She said that anyone could talk to coroners and
morticians across the country about what they have seen regarding deaths caused by
second-hand smoke. The government cannot predict human behavior as the result of a

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 14
person drinking too much, but they can predict that if a person is around second-hand
smoke for 20 minutes, their chemical make-up begins to change and their arteries begin
to constrict. Studies predict that when a person is in a room with second-hand smoke
for 30 minutes, it is as if they have smoked five cigarettes, even if they have not puffed
on one cigarette. She said that penalties for those who are irresponsible drinkers is for
another ordinance or legislative body to consider.
Councillor Oliver said that he used to smoke but gave it up for health reasons. He said
that one of the things both his primary care doctor and cardiologist asked him was how
old his parents were when they passed, and if they smoked, from what disease did they
die. He said his father did smoke and died of cardiac arrest. A doctor does not ask the
question as to whether or not a person is exposed to second-hand smoke, just if they
are a smoker themselves. Yet unfortunately, some non-smokers work in an
environment where the level of second-hand smoke is just as dangerous. He thanked
Dr. Hyland and Councilwoman Tavares for coming and sharing their findings.
Councilwoman Tavares said that she is passionate about this issue because when her
father suffered a massive stroke at the age of 38, the doctor told him to give up
cigarettes if he wanted to see his children grow up. Her father never touched another
cigarette and then died of a heart attack at the age of 48. She said that she knows her
father lived another 10 years because he gave up cigarettes. She said that her
husband, who is in his 40s, had a heart-attack in July, right after the smoke-free
ordinance was passed. She said that both she and her husband have a history of heart
disease in their family. While they cannot control their heredity and something they may
be pre-disposed to, they can control the environment they are in and the way they eat.
She said that she enjoys dancing and spent a lot of time doing so in her younger years.
If she knew then what she knows today, how that second-hand smoke she was
exposed to in those clubs, breathing it in heavily while dancing, was so dangerous to
her health, she would not have spent so much time there. She said that she enjoys
listening to jazz music, but most jazz clubs are smoky and hot, and she cannot enjoy
something she truly loves doing because of the danger to her health. She said that she
wants to do everything she can to prevent her premature death and that of her
constituents, and that is why she wants to help others with this issue.
Chair Mansfield thanked both Dr. Hyland and Councilwoman Tavares for coming some
distance and giving of their time to share with the Committee and the public here in
Indianapolis about this very important issue.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
Councillor Bowes stated that he is the Councillor for District 7 on the northwest side of
Indianapolis. He said that it is his pleasure to present Proposal No. 45, 2005 along with
his co-sponsors Chair Mansfield, Councillor Talley, Councillor Keller, and Councillor
Patrice Abduallah. He explained to the public how to find the actual proposal language
on the Council website. He said that this proposal is designed to protect employees in

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 15
workplaces from the dangers of second-hand smoke. It prohibits smoking in
workplaces, public places, restaurants and bars, and certain outdoor areas, which is an
extension beyond what Columbus, Ohio has done. Those outdoor areas include the
outdoor seating areas around restaurants and bars, sports arenas, and public parks.
There is a list of exemptions that are not covered by this ordinance, such as private
residences (unless the residence is used for a public use such as a day care),
businesses that are family-owned and the public is not invited to enter (such as mail
order), 20% of hotel rooms in Indianapolis, retail tobacco stores, residents in private or
semi-private rooms in nursing homes (as long as other occupants give written
permission), and vehicles used for work that carry no other passengers. Councillor
Bowes said that he received an e-mail this week that goes back to the idea shared by
Councillor Oliver about criminalization of an addiction or lifestyle. He said that the email asked why, in light of all the jail overcrowding that is already prevalent, would the
Council create another crime. He said that this proposal does not create a crime, but
rather an ordinance violation that results in a fine.
Councillor Bowes added that with regards to enforceability, any law enforcement officer
can issue a ticket for any ordinance violation. Such violations are usually settled out of
court, but could end up before the City prosecutor and City legal. Other zoning, building
code, fire and other inspectors who are a part of City government already perform
inspections, as well. This ordinance authorizes those same inspectors to issue citations
for violations with regards to this added ordinance. He said that the proposal also
allows for private citizens to issue a complaint, possibly with a hotline similar to the
Mayor’s Action Center (MAC). He said that there is a relationship with the Health
Department in addressing this issue, but not to the extent that the Council is telling them
how to enforce the issue. The Health Department, however, supports the smoke-free
regulations and would probably be willing to help with enforcement, even though the
Council cannot legally require them to do so. Councillor Bowes stated that the first
violation would result in a $100 fine, which the violator could mail. If the individual or
business owner wishes to challenge the violation, they could then take it to court, just as
a person could challenge a parking ticket or other ordinance violation. The second
violation in a calendar year would result in a minimum penalty of $200, with a maximum
penalty of any City ordinance violation at $2,500. The ordinance also states that those
organizations that commit violations and are issued a license by local government could
be in jeopardy of their license being revoked or not renewed if they do not comply. This
adds another incentive to abide by the law in order to be granted the privileges the
government allows. Councillor Bowes stated that he has served as a pro tem judge in
Environmental Court, and his experience was that inspectors went out of their way to
promote voluntary compliance, and an ordinance violation case would not show up in
court until all avenues of voluntary compliance had been exhausted. He said that he
fully expects this ordinance will be handled the same way, and upon the first contact
believes most individuals and businesses will comply. He said that he does not expect
any added police or inspectors will be needed.

Children’s Health & Environment Committee
February 24, 2005
Page 16
Councillor Bowes said that second-hand smoke is the third leading cause of
preventable death. Studies have shown that Marion County loses 250 people to
second-hand smoke each year. Another study shows that in 2002, Marion County
spent $16.7 million to treat illnesses and disease caused by second-hand smoke. He
said that he believes it is the Council’s duty to protect their fellow citizens, and this is the
motivation for offering the proposal. He hopes the Committee will take a long look at
this issue, listening to input from the community, and understanding that the proposal is
the right thing to do.
Chair Mansfield said that because several hearings are scheduled on this issue to
garner maximum public input, she would entertain a motion to postpone action on the
proposal.
Councillor Talley moved, seconded by Councillor Oliver, to “Postpone” Proposal No. 45,
2004 until March 10, 2005. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0.
Councillor Bradford asked Councillor Bowes what the first and second leading causes of
preventable death are. Councillor Bowes stated that the first cause is first-hand
smoking, and the second cause deals with nutrition, such as obesity and other eating
disorders. Councillor Bradford asked if the Committee is then going to address these
issues also. Councillor Bowes said that the first two causes are a personal choice and
only affect the individual engaging in the activity. Second-hand smoke extends that
health hazard to the people around the smoker. He said that an individual eating
unhealthy foods does not make another person eat unhealthy foods. Councillor
Bradford said that it could potentially have this effect in a situation where a parent is
feeding a child food that is unhealthy.
Councillor Talley suggested that at the March 10th meeting, the Committee could
possibly decide a future date to end debate and take a final vote for recommendation to
the full Council instead of postponing the proposal to each meeting. He said that this
would avoid the appearance that the Committee might take a final vote at each meeting.
Chair Mansfield agreed that this is a good suggestion and said that she will look at the
schedule to consider feasible dates for a vote.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 7:49 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
ALM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

April 6, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:05 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:03 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Patrice Abduallah
Greg Bowes
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS
Jim Bradford

AGENDA
PUBLIC FORUM
Members of the public will be invited to express their
views regarding the proposed smokefree air act.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Wednesday, April 6, 2005 at the Warren Performing Arts Center located at 9500 East
16th Street. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. with the
following members present: Patrice Abduallah, Greg Bowes, Susie Day, Scott Keller,
and William Oliver. Steve Talley arrived shortly thereafter. Jim Bradford was absent.
Councillor Vernon Brown was also in attendance.
PUBLIC FORUM
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a
recommendation is made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for
action until May 5, 2005.)
Chair Mansfield welcomed everyone to the Warren Performing Arts Center and thanked
Penny Mitchell and those associated with the Center for allowing them to use the
facility. She stated that before she opens the meeting for public testimony, Dr. Terry
Zollinger, epidemiologist, professor with the Department of Family Medicine, and
associate director of the Bowen Research Center, will offer a brief presentation
regarding the economic impact of secondhand smoke in Marion County, Indiana.
[Attached as Exhibit A.]
Dr. Zollinger provided information from a study on the economic impact of secondhand
smoke in Marion County. This study looked at the health care and loss of life costs
associated with diseases caused by secondhand smoke exposure. He said that health
effects from smoking are well-known, but effects of exposure to secondhand smoke
have only recently been identified. It is clear that exposure to secondhand smoke
causes disease and death. Secondhand smoke causes low birth weight babies, sudden
infant death syndrome (SIDS), respiratory infections in children, asthma and asthma
irritation, middle ear infections in children, lung cancer, heart disease, and nasal sinus
cancer. Dr. Zollinger said that in order to estimate the cost of health care, they first had
to estimate the attributable risk for secondhand smoke exposure, identify the number of
cases of the disease, and then add up the cost of hospitalization and ambulatory care
costs. He said that they used national outpatient cost data, county level hospitalization
data, and medical care categories of the Consumer Price Index to help determine these
costs. He relayed the formula for calculations and specific health care costs for both
children and adults as detailed in Exhibit A. He said that to determine loss of life costs,
the study considered attributable risk, the number of cause-specific deaths, value of life,
life expectancy, and the average age at death for specific diseases. The study used

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 2
documented studies of the impact of secondhand smoke, vital statistics, and federal
government estimates of value of life to help with the findings. He relayed the formula
for calculations and specific loss of life costs for both children and adults as detailed in
Exhibit A. He relayed the total costs for Marion County in 2000 as $16.7 million in
medical care and $37.2 million in loss of life, for a total of $53.9 million, which averages
out to approximately $62.68 per person. He said that more reliable estimates for
attributable risk are still needed on other diseases, and some medical care costs for
adults were not available. He said that the cost of pain and suffering was not included
and business costs need to be updated.
Chair Mansfield thanked Dr. Zollinger for his presentation. She welcomed Councillor
Vernon Brown, in whose district this meeting is taking place.
Councillor Keller said that it was testified at earlier hearings that there was a correlation
between smoking in homes and children developing asthma. He asked if this study
found such a correlation. Dr. Zollinger said that asthma was included in the study. He
said that literature clearly shows that smoking in a home environment produces a higher
risk of children developing asthma and causes complications for those who already
have asthma.
Councillor Oliver asked if there are any violations of health codes where smoking is
allowed in a home with an asthmatic child. Dr. Zollinger said that he cannot address
that specifically, as he is not familiar with all the Health and Hospital Corporation (H&H)
ordinances, but it is always recommended that adults step outside of the home to
smoke and not expose their children to these dangerous carcinogens. Councillor Oliver
stated that schools used to have smoking lounges for teachers, and the elimination of
such should be an example to parents. Dr. Zollinger said that a family’s medical
provider can certainly advise and explain these dangers to parents.
Councillor Bowes asked if data presented at an earlier hearing regarding secondhand
smoke leading to the death of 250 and hospitalization of 1,000 people in Marion County
is data from this study. Dr. Zollinger said that there are possibly 262 deaths each year
in Marion County attributed to the effects of secondhand smoke. He said that the
question becomes about whether or not the County is more worried about health care
dollars spent or actual deaths. Councillor Bowes asked how they came up with that
number of deaths. Dr. Zollinger said that there are many diseases linked to
secondhand smoke, but not all deaths related to that disease are attributable to
secondhand smoke exposure, therefore they use a formula to come up with a
conservative estimate of percentage of these deaths related to secondhand smoke. He
said that it is a complicated process using available data and adjusting for other
compounding factors of the disease. They do, however, use peer review quality data,
and therefore believe these estimates to be accurate. Councillor Bowes asked if there
are numbers available as to how many of these types of deaths from secondhand
smoke-related deaths are attributable to other causes. Dr. Zollinger said that he does

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 3
not have this information with him tonight but does have these numbers and would be
happy to share them with Councillor Bowes.
Councillor Abduallah asked about the correlation between those deaths attributable to
first-hand smoking and those caused by secondhand smoke. Dr. Zollinger said that
there have been extensive studies about the effects of smoking, and it is easier to
determine that smoking is the cause of death. He said that measuring the effects of
secondhand smoke continues to evolve and he does not want to overstate the case or
make assumptions that cannot be substantiated. He said that it is, however, proven
that as the number of first-hand smokers go down, less people are then exposed to
secondhand smoke.
Ben Ciaccio stated that he is the owner of Just Darts, a family-owned amusement
vending company that has 450 pieces of equipment in 60 bar locations in Marion
County. He said that 75% of darters smoke, and this is the way they generate revenue
for their company. He said that if bar patrons cannot smoke, they will not stay and play
for hours. The Committee should consider the hardship this ban would impose on his
business.
Mark Webb, Indiana Licensed Beverage Association, said that most secondhand smoke
exposure is attributable to parents smoking in the home. He said that most patrons will
go on home to smoke instead of stepping outside a bar every time they want to smoke.
He said that the economic impact propaganda does not tell stories of small bars and
taverns who have had to close their doors because of smoking bans. He said that
Toledo, Ohio was forced to roll back their ban. In the short time that this ban was in
effect, 14 bars were forced to close. He said that the comptroller of Maryland decided
that state could not afford such loss of business and that ban failed.
Tommy Wills, citizen, stated that he is a non-smoker, but his wife is a smoker and she
enjoys smoking after a meal, and the smoke does not bother him. He said this proposal
takes freedom of choice away. He said that he and his wife will go to another County to
eat if this ban is imposed. He is an ex-Marine and is disturbed that there are boys
fighting for this country’s freedom right now, yet this proposal wants to take those
freedoms away. He said that he is a musician and plays in bands and does not believe
that secondhand smoke kills. There are many other air pollution factors people face
every day that cause just as much damage, such as buses and industrial business
smoke stacks.
Chair Mansfield thanked Mr. Wills for his military service.
Daniel Sparks, a 20-year Department of Public Works employee, stated that a
smokefree policy has already gone into effect at work. He said that he drives a salt
truck, and sometimes they are required to work a mandatory seven days a week, up to
14 hours a day, and yet he is not allowed to smoke in his vehicle if there is another
employee with him. He said that there are times when a big snow is expected that they

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 4
are on lock-down for up to 16 hours. He said that in the past, areas were set aside for
them to smoke, which were very much appreciated, since snow weather can be pretty
treacherous and the temperatures can be as low as 15 degrees below zero. He said
that other employees will not come to Committee hearings to speak out for fear of losing
their jobs.
Bill Smythe, owner of four Claude & Annie’s Restaurants and Indy Amusements, stated
that this is an intrusion on personal rights. He said that the data that has been
submitted does not show the real loss of revenue to all businesses, but just an average.
He said that he is clearly opposed to this proposal. He said that bars do not allow
children into their establishments, and therefore, they are not affecting children with
secondhand smoke. He said that he is glad to see more opposing views here this
evening than at the previous hearing.
Jerry King, Indiana Public Health Association (IPHA), stated that IPHA is an affiliation of
the American Public Health Association (APHA). He said that the APHA held a
convention here in Indianapolis, with over 11,000 health officials here for a five-day
conference, spending money in restaurants, hotels, and shops. He said that the APHA
will no longer hold conventions in any city that has not gone smokefree. He said that
although the loss of one convention may not seem like a big deal, there may be other
health organizations or convention entities who will follow suit. He said that many other
large cities have already gone smokefree, such as Sacramento, San Francisco,
Honolulu, Lexington, Dallas, Boston, and New York. He said that public health is a
good reason to do this here in Indianapolis.
Dan Drexler, Libertarian Party, said that the California data was based on an
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study, with just a passing note on outside
smoke. He said that most secondhand smoke exposure happens in the home, not in a
restaurant or bar. He said that the data that has been represented is funded by antitobacco lobbyists. He said that if the Committee really believes there will be no
economic impact, they should add a sunset clause and a provision to subsidize those
businesses that experience a devastating loss of business.
Monica Moran, bartender at the Post Pub, said that 85% of their clientele are smokers
and all are 21 or older. She said that customers should have the choice, and asked
why the Committee wants to take away one more freedom.
Tom Quarto, co-owner of Post Pub, stated that the data presented has been unfair and
misleading. He said that it has been said this ban will not affect businesses. He said
that it probably will not affect fast food restaurants or national chains, but the small bars
and taverns will be devastated. He said that California has far fewer smokers than this
part of the country and the weather allows for outdoor smoking to be convenient and
comfortable. He said that in New York and in Fort Wayne, small bars are closing. The
Committee should explore the idea of exempting taverns. He said that this proposal will
put him out of business, due to the decline in revenue.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 5
Bill Bowes, Smoke Free Indy, said that there is a growing awareness of people who
have fallen victim to secondhand smoke. He said that while he agrees it is a choice not
to go to these places where smoking is allowed, some may not be fully aware of the
dangers. He added that many non-smokers would like the opportunity to socialize,
bowl, dance, shoot darts, and eat in an establishment where their health is not at risk.
He said that non-smokers’ choices are not as extensive because of limited smokefree
venues for these types of activities. He asked the Committee to help him and 650,000
of his closest friends to have more choices.
David Hogan, owner of Hogan’s Pub, said that most of his patrons are 35 to 80 years
old and he has 40 darters on Monday nights. If this proposal is passed, these darters
will go to Johnson County. He said that he would be glad to put a sign on his door to
indicate that he is a smoking establishment, and if people do not want to be exposed to
smoke, they can go elsewhere. He said that he paid $135 recently to attend a Monster
Truck Show at the RCA Dome, and the smoke was much worse than anything in a bar.
He said that he served in Vietnam, where servicemen were exposed to agent orange by
the government.
Chair Mansfield thanked Mr. Hogan for service to his country.
Symone McEwen, citizen, stated that she moved from Portland, Oregon, where
smoking was banned, so that she would have more freedom, and owners should have
rights.
Merrill Roberts, non-smoking citizen, stated that the Committee continues to bring in all
these experts on secondhand smoke. According to their data, everyone in this room
should be dead. He said that there are probably other doctors who would say
differently. He said that with regards to parks and bus stops, he does not have a
problem keeping these smokefree, but for privately owned businesses for clientele over
the age of 21, they should be allowed to make their own business decisions.
Tim Filler, citizen, stated that he supports this ordinance as it is designed to protect
workers. It is okay if those who smoke want to die early, but it is not okay for their
smoking to promote his early death. He said that he did not choose to breathe in
smoke, and he has a right to a smokefree workplace.
Josh Shaw, citizen, said that he graduated last May from Indiana University. He said
that since the ban was passed in Bloomington, he now goes out more often because he
has more choices. He said prior to the ban, he only went to non-smoking restaurants,
but it is nice not to have to go out of his way to find one. He said that he is a big fan of
the smoking ban ordinance, and he believes it has been good for business in
Bloomington.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 6
Marvin Schroeder, citizen, said that he quit smoking three months ago. He asked,
however, if this ban passes, what is next? He asked if the Council will then propose a
ban on alcohol or the lottery. He said that instead of banning these things, the City
should put a “sin tax” on such activities, so that people quit the activity to avoid paying
the tax, and those who do not want to quit will have to continue to pay for it.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Talley arrived at 6:56 p.m.]
John Parlapiano, Waters Edge Pub, stated that the Committee should consider the
expenses some of these establishments have incurred for expensive ventilation
systems. He said that he would gladly accept a smoking ban if his customers wanted it,
but they do not. He said that his customers come to his bar to smoke away from the
home, where there are children and their smoke might harm them.
Rex Burcham, Kelly’s Pub II, said that his bar is located just a few minutes from the
Hendricks County line. He said that his establishment is only open to adults 21 and
older, and he knows if this ban is passed many of his customers will pass his bar to go
four miles to another establishment so that they can enjoy a cigarette with their meal or
drink.
Susan Sheridan, Martin University, stated that she was a nurse for 30 years, and the
negative effects of secondhand smoke are becoming more and more evident. She said
that although tonight it seems the smokers’ voices are louder than the non-smokers’,
she has 500 students in her African American studies classes, and almost all of them
support a non-smoking ban. She said that she has one 50-year-old student who has
asthma and has to stay home and cannot enjoy the jazz music she loves because of the
dangers of secondhand smoke in most places that offer this type of music.
Nikki Haars, citizen, said that she chose not to smoke because of her health. She
developed lung cancer, and the doctor told her she had the lungs of a smoker even
though she had never smoked. She said that she worked in a smoke-filled environment
for 20 years, and knows that is the reason for her cancer. She said that there is no
reason to wait any longer to pass this proposal. This is a public health policy and safe
workplaces should be provided for everyone. She said that it has been proven that
cigarette smoke causes cancer, and the Council should take steps to protect the health
of future generations.
Jack Rossman, Air Cleaning Specialists, said that the real problem is not the absence of
technology to clean the air, but that there are laws on the books that are not being
followed and enforced. He said that 90% of establishments do not follow the ventilation
requirements because of the expense. He said that he personally prefers a smokefree
environment, but he expects bars to have some smoke. He said that the City needs to
enforce the laws in place instead of passing a ban.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 7
Dustin Fitzpatrick, citizen, said that this is America, and there should be choices. He
said that everyone knows there will be cigarette smoke in a bar, and if they do not want
to be around it, they should not go in. He said that this ordinance is asinine and it will
hurt the income of small business owners.
Scott Eder, Harvester Bar and Grill, said that he owns a small business that is part of
the fabric of the community. He said that he keeps his establishment clean for his
customers so that both non-smokers and smokers enjoy their experience. He said that
his customers are the ones who support him, and their patronage enables him to give
charitable contributions back to the community that he would not be able to do if they
quit coming. He said that if his business closes, many will lose out.
Penny Bigelow, citizen, read a prepared statement which is attached as Exhibit B.
Don Sneed, restaurant owner and employer in Warren Township, asked after making a
legal substance illegal on private property, what will stop government from regulating
legal activities in one’s own home? He said that this is private property, and it should be
a personal choice. People do not need to come to his restaurant if they do not like the
smell of smoke.
Rich Strong, citizen, said that he is a non-smoker and he cannot imagine being exposed
to secondhand smoke in his own workplace. He said that non-smokers have avoided
bars for years because of the effects of secondhand smoke and because they do not
want to pay a cover charge to enter a place, only to be putting their health in harm’s
way. He said that the objections seem more voluntary and selective. There have been
regulations on businesses for years to help protect the safety and health of citizens,
such as wastewater treatment and air pollution, and this is simply another way to protect
those rights.
Jonathan Smith, citizen, said that American soldiers are dying to protect rights and
freedom, and yet they cannot come home and enjoy a cigarette in a bar because their
own personal freedom and choices have been taken away. He said that he did not ask
anyone to serve with him overseas, and therefore they should stay home and not ask
him not to smoke.
Babette Johnson, bartender, asked if this Committee is willing to pay to support her
children if this proposal passes. She is a single mother and may not have a job if this
ordinance is enacted.
Deborah Mutersputh, citizen, said that movie theatres are smokefree, but this does not
seem to hurt their business any. She said that national anchorman Peter Jennings just
last night testified to having lung cancer from smoking, further reinforcing the fact that
smoking kills. She said that she cannot go to listen to her son play in his band because
of the smoke-filled environment. She thanked the Committee for considering such an
important issue.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 8
Councillor Keller said that $1 of every $7 is spent on health care, and it was testified
that the City could lose significant convention and hospitality dollars. He asked if these
losses have been weighed against bars or taverns possibly losing some revenue.
Mr. Quarto said that this is not just about losing a few dollars, but is about livelihoods.
He said that the City could also lose convention business if the ban is enacted, such as
from racing or sports conventions. He said that all the statistics that have been
presented are one-sided, and he still does not believe secondhand smoke is harmful.
Mr. Fitzpatrick said that the City could lose the firefighter convention, Formula One, and
other possible organizations because of a smoking ban. He said that he does not live in
a communist country and this will hurt the city more than it will help.
Chair Mansfield said that a poll is actually being conducted of conventions that come to
the City to see how a ban would affect their decision to continue bringing their
convention business here.
Joe Wilson, owner of a bar in Councillor Keller’s district, said that this ban will definitely
affect and hurt his business, which he depends on for his livelihood.
Mr. Parlapiano said instead of a ban, the City should offer incentives to bars to be
smokefree, such as reductions in licensing fees, and then let them and their customers
decide.
Mr. Webb said that a small business owner cannot weigh a “sure thing” against a
possibility. He said that these tavern owners have no way of knowing for sure if they
will gain new non-smoking customers, but have been told by their current clientele that
a smoking ban will keep them from coming as often or staying as long.
Joan Marcinac, student at Indiana University-Purdue University of Indianapolis (IUPUI)
and resident of Councillor Monroe Gray’s district, stated that this ordinance should be
passed for integrity and compassion. She said that there are many regulations and
laws that people do not like, such as seatbelts and reduced speed limits in school
zones. However, these are necessary to protect the health and safety of citizens. She
said that adults tell children that smoking is bad, yet show by example that it is
acceptable. She said that 80% of people who smoke want to quit, but it is an addiction
and is not that easy. She said that this ordinance would help people quit smoking and
keep people from starting. She said that the Council should set an example and
provide an environment to eliminate this health hazard.
Councillor Bowes said that this is a very controversial issue and the Council does not
want to make the wrong decision. He said that they want to make the right decision that
does the most good and they have the best intentions. He said that he would hate that
the Council made the wrong decision by passing the proposal and putting dozens of

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
April 6, 2005
Page 9
businesses out of business, but would also hate that they made the wrong decision by
not passing the ordinance and causing more citizens medical complications and death.
Councillor Oliver said that there has been a gradual decline of smokers these last few
years, and only about 30% of the population still smokes. He said that almost anywhere
he goes these days, he rarely sees smokers. He said that insurance companies offer
discount rates for non-smokers, which helps to combat the smoking health hazard. He
said that the Committee does not want to overreact and do more harm than good.
Councillor Talley said that there is not one member of the Council who wants to make a
decision that is detrimental to Marion County. He complimented the Committee Chair
on holding public forums in different areas of the city at different times in order to solicit
the most input. He said that the members will not make a decision without first listening
to all the input being offered. He said that he has left some brochures in the back with
information on contacting Council members and access to their website, so that the
public can continue to make their views on this and other subjects known.
Councillor Abduallah thanked everyone for their remarks and said that this is a hard
decision to make for the community . The Committee wants to do the best they can to
provide a healthy environment for all. He said that they also want to consider business
owners and freedom of choice. He added that his father died of cancer because of
smoking and asked if someone grows up in such an environment and develops chronic
asthma, who pays that cost if the individual cannot? He said that the Committee is
trying to consider the greater good without causing hardship on those who have
invested financially in a business. He said that he is a percussionist but cannot go into
a bar to play because of the smoke. He said that it is a fact that secondhand smoke
kills, and he is passionate about this issue, while being respectful to do something
positive for the entire community.
Chair Mansfield said that this public forum is just a part of the overall process. She
thanked all those who shared their thoughts and concerns and invited them to come
again tomorrow night and next Thursday. She encouraged others to come out and let
their voices be heard, as well.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:03 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
DATE:

March 24, 2005

CALLED TO ORDER:

6:00 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

8:28 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Angela Mansfield, Chair
Greg Bowes
Jim Bradford
Susie Day
Scott Keller
William Oliver
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS

AGENDA
PRESENTATIONS FROM A MEDICAL PERSPECTIVE
Ruth Altherr Rench, MS, RN – cardiovascular nurse; President, Board of Directors
American Heart Association, Indianapolis Metropolitan Region
Stephen J. Jay, M.D. – pulmonologist; Professor of Medicine and Public Health;
Chair, Department of Public Health; Indiana University School of Medicine
Medical Student Council Resolution – Representatives from the Indiana
University School of Medicine Student Body
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)

CHILDREN’S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
The Children’s Health and Environment Committee of the City-County Council met on
Thursday, March 24, 2005. Chair Angela Mansfield called the meeting to order at 6:00
p.m. with the following members present: Greg Bowes, Jim Bradford, Susie Day, Scott
Keller, William Oliver, and Steve Talley.
PRESENTATIONS FROM A MEDICAL PERSPECTIVE
Stephen J. Jay, M.D. – pulmonologist; Professor of Medicine and Public Health; Chair,
Department of Public Health; Indiana University School of Medicine
Dr. Jay presented a brief Powerpoint presentation on the clinical effects of
exposure to secondhand smoke. (Presentation is attached as Exhibit A.) He
explained that there are several effects casually associated with secondhand
smoke:
1) Carcinogenic Effects
a) Lung cancer
b) Nasal sinus cancer
2) Cardiovascular Effects
a) Heart disease mortality
b) Acute and chronic coronary heart disease morbidity
3) Developmental Effects
a) Fetal growth: low birth weight or small for gestational age
b) Sudden infant death syndrome
4) Respiratory Effects
a) Acute lower respiratory tract infections in children (ie: bronchitis and
pneumonia)
b) Asthma induction and exacerbation in children
c) Chronic respiratory symptoms in children
d) Eye and nasal irritation in children
e) Middle ear infections in children
Dr. Jay said that epidemiological and statistical methods for determining disease
and death rates attributable to smoking or secondhand smoke were developed in
the 1940s and were used in the first Surgeon General’s report on Smoking and
Lung Cancer and in all subsequent Surgeon General reports on the subject. He

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 2
said that these methods are widely published in peer-reviewed science articles
world-wide and are used by major science-based organizations around the world.
Estimation of attributable morbidity or mortality requires knowledge of 1) the
relative risk of specific disease caused by tobacco smoke, 2) prevalence of
specific disease in the population, and 3) number of events attributed to
secondhand smoke. For decades, the tobacco industry has tried to discredit the
science of smoking attributable disease, both active smoking and secondhand
smoke. He explained how establishing a “dose-response” relationship between
exposure to secondhand smoke and disease is a powerful finding in the weight of
evidence. He provided statistical graphs outlining the correlation between
secondhand smoke and lung cancer, coronary heart disease (CHD), and acute
stroke. He said that one in eight Indiana residents has asthma or chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Many have acute or chronic symptoms of
cough, wheezing, or shortness of breath when exposed to secondhand smoke,
and therefore take active steps to avoid it. Many develop severe symptoms that
require clinic or hospital treatment, and some episodes can even be fatal. He
gave two specific case studies of secondhand smoke exposure which led to
hospital visits, yet these individuals had no recurring episodes when they took
measures to avoid exposure to secondhand smoke. Dr. Jay said that respiratory
disease is widespread in Indiana and Marion County, and exposure to
secondhand smoke can affect health and quality of living for both young and old
alike. He said that creating smokefree public places will improve the lives of
thousands of citizens who battle respiratory disease and can prevent
secondhand smoke-related disease in many others.
Councillor Keller asked with regards to death certificates if smoking or
secondhand smoke are ever listed as the actual cause of death and if any heart
organizations claim that secondhand smoke is okay. Dr. Jay said that there is a
practical problem with death certificates. The space to write the cause of death
on a death certificate is very small, and therefore, doctors usually just write down
the last event, such as cardiac arrest. He added that death certificates are done
differently in different states, and an Oregon study showed that prior events
leading to the final event should be included, such as smoking or diet. He said
that unfortunately, death certificates are not designed to assess the prevalence
of diseases. He added that all heart organizations would agree that secondhand
smoke is detrimental to one’s health.
Councillor Oliver said that the charts in Dr. Jay’s presentation seem to suggest
that a woman who quits smoking when she gets pregnant is still at risk due to
secondhand smoke. Dr. Jay said that this is correct, and there are still risks
associated with former behavior, which is exacerbated by the amount of
secondhand smoke to which a person is exposed. He said that women who
smoke during pregnancy have offspring that are at higher risk for certain
illnesses. Children who have not been exposed to smoke in the womb but are
exposed to secondhand smoke after birth also are more susceptible to these

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 3
types of illnesses. Therefore, it is not always necessarily a factor of a mother
smoking during her pregnancy which causes such respiratory illnesses.
Councillor Oliver asked if there is more exposure from a smoker in the home or
from a visit to a restaurant or bar. Dr. Jay said that it depends on the number of
smokers and how much they smoke. Some of the highest concentrations people
are exposed to are in restaurant or bar settings.
Chair Mansfield said that Dr. Virginia Caine from the Marion County Health
Department will be addressing this Committee at a later date with more
information and statistics specific to Marion County.
Councillor Bradford asked if there are any of the 92 Indiana counties that list
secondhand smoke as a cause for death on death certificates. Dr. Jay said that
he does not know of any specifically as he has not studied that issue or done
research on it. Councillor Bradford asked if this information should be
considered in formulating statistics. Dr. Jay said that the death certificate is not a
document that is designed to answer the question the Committee is dealing with
at this time. Councillor Bradford asked if insurance companies base their
coverage and distributions on this type of information. Dr. Jay said that this is
correct, and this data is aggregated at various levels. He said that all of the
national agencies and Surgeon General reports realize the problems associated
with death certificate data. Councillor Bradford asked if Dr. Jay expects the
certificates to change with more awareness of the effects of secondhand smoke.
Dr. Jay said that he fully expects that it will, and there are some states that
already include a series of questions to reach a final cause of death. There is a
lot of effort nationally and on a state level to improve these certificates.
Councillor Bradford said that one of Dr. Jay’s charts showed that there were
32,000 deaths associated to secondhand smoke. He asked how many deaths
are attributed to obesity. Dr. Jay said that there are approximately 300,000
premature deaths in the United States attributed to obesity. Councillor Bradford
asked then if people who are overweight would not then be a priority over
secondhand smoke, since ten times the amount of people die from obesityrelated disease than from secondhand smoke exposure. Chair Mansfield said
that the difference with obesity and secondhand smoke is that obesity is a
personal action, but secondhand smoke-related disease is not related to any
action of the individual, but the action of those around them. Councillor Bradford
said if a parent is overweight and gives their child fast food and unhealthy food
choices, there are no laws against that. He said if he feeds his child McDonald’s
every day of the week, Child Welfare could not take his child away for breaking
any laws.
Councillor Bradford asked if asthma is sometimes hereditary. Dr. Jay said that it
can be familial, but genetics have not yet been determined. Councillor Bradford
said that people with asthma can also experience episodes when exposed to
pollen or other irritants. Dr. Jay said that this is correct. Councillor Bradford said

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 4
that ozone layers, grass cuttings, or other pollutants are not banned. Dr. Jay
said that the good news about the studies that he referred to is that all of those
factors are taken into consideration. The scientists control for atmospheric air
pollution, ozone, pollen count, etc. so that they can quantify the effect of
secondhand smoke independent of those other factors.
Councillor Bradford referred to the two case studies and asked if either of these
individuals were overweight or had any history of anxiety or depression. Dr. Jay
said that neither were overweight, but he is not sure of anxiety history. Councillor
Bradford said that when people enter a room with 45 people, they could
experience more of an anxiety attack due to overcrowding than be bothered by
secondhand smoke. Dr. Jay said that an asthma attack that brings a person
near death is a lot different from an anxiety attack. Councillor Bradford asked if
one night’s exposure to smoke would put someone near death or if these other
factors, such as weight and anxiety, might contribute to that. Dr. Jay said that he
has seen asthmatics go from breathing normally to writhing in agony on the floor
within 30 to 40 seconds of exposure to smoke. Councillor Bradford asked if they
could not have that same reaction to freshly cut grass. Dr. Jay said that people
that have a predilection for asthma are usually not sensitive to just one trigger
and therefore could have reactions to other stimulants. Councillor Bradford said
that there are so many things that can affect asthma, including pollen count,
anxiety, and mold, and all of the responses should not be attributable to
secondhand smoke. He said that he does not believe smoking is good for a
person’s health, as his father died from smoking-related disease. However, he
does not feel that secondhand smoke will kill someone through limited exposure
found briefly in a restaurant or bar.
Councillor Bowes said that Councillor Bradford is not a doctor, and Dr. Jay has
explained that there are controls used in these studies to isolate this data so that
the effects are directly related to secondhand smoke exposure. Dr. Jay said that
this is correct, and these are controlled studies that prove the effect of smoking
and secondhand smoke on health, taking into account other factors. Councillor
Bowes said that many are concerned that there is a 100% certainty with scientific
statistics that secondhand smoke is harmful before taking action on this issue.
He said that 100% certainty on anything is very rare, and he asked Dr. Jay if he
is comfortable making life or death decisions based on the information available.
Dr. Jay said that it is difficult to determine with 100% certainty that one thing
causes another. However, in the case of secondhand smoke, scientists and
doctors have the ability to measure carcinogenic substances in the bloodstream
and urine of nonsmokers exposed to secondhand smoke. These substances
have been shown in independent studies to cause cancer. As a clinician, there
are very few areas in medicine where there is more compelling data as to risks
than those caused by smoking or secondhand smoke. A one-pack-a-day
cigarette smoker has a 1,500% increased risk of death from lung cancer than a

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 5
nonsmoker. There are very few areas in clinical medicine where doctors see
such a dramatic risk associated.
Councillor Bradford asked again if obesity leads to death. Dr. Jay said that it can
be a contributing factor. Councillor Bradford asked if carbon monoxide from cars
can eventually lead to death. Dr. Jay said that air pollution is causally related to
increased mortality. Councillor Bradford asked if power lines or cell phones
could also be contributing factors to death. Dr. Jay said that he has no data to
support that.
Chair Mansfield asked for questions from the public related specifically to Dr.
Jay’s presentation. She stated that there will be public forums beginning on
March 30, 2005 for more general comments.
Bruce Fox, citizen, asked with regards to the two case studies if either individual
might have eaten something that would have caused some type of allergic
reaction or asthmatic attack. Dr. Jay said that neither of these individuals had a
recorded food allergy. Mr. Fox said that it might be a new food that they did not
know they were allergic to, and asked if these individuals were asked if they ate
something different. Dr. Jay said that these individuals had dealt with asthma for
some time and knew that the exposure to smoke was the reason for their
episode. Mr. Fox said that the same type of episode could have occurred for
another reason. Chair Mansfield said that the source of these individuals’
episodes were determined by their clinical doctors who were familiar with their
medical issues.
Merle Roberts, citizen, said that Ozzie Nelson of the television series “Ozzie and
Harriet” was dying of cirrhosis of the liver, and he asked his wife why he was
dying of cirrhosis of the liver when he had never drunk or smoked. He said that
everyone will die sometime and cause of death cannot always be determined.
Ruth Altherr Rench, MS, RN – cardiovascular nurse; President, Board of Directors,
American Heart Association, Indianapolis Metropolitan Region
Ms. Rench stated that she is the current president of the American Heart Association
metropolitan region board for Indianapolis. She was born on a farm in Tipton County,
Indiana and has been a resident of the city of Indianapolis since 1972. She graduated
from Indiana University School of Nursing and began taking care of patients whose lives
had been drastically changed by heart disease. Over the past 25 years, she has seen
advanced research and technologies that have allowed health care workers like herself
to save lives. She added that now the Council is in a position to help save lives, as well.
Constant exposure to secondhand smoke, whether in the workplace or in the home,
nearly doubles the risk of having a heart attack in nonsmokers. She said that the
American Heart Association is committed to this issue, as well as to others such as
obesity and lack of physical activity, and are working on all of those areas with as much

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 6
energy as they have to share. Five minutes of exposure to secondhand smoke stiffens
the aorta so that the heart has to work harder to pump blood. This is the same amount
of exposure as smoking one cigarette. Secondhand smoke is the third leading cause of
preventable death in the United States and the number one trigger of asthma attacks.
Twenty minutes of exposure to secondhand smoke is equal to smoking one pack of
cigarettes and results in sticky blood platelets which again increases the chance for
heart attack. Thirty minutes of exposure has the same effect on the coronary arteries
as a regular smoker, which affects the ability of the artery to open or dilate during times
when a person needs more or less blood supply to the heart muscle. Two hours of
exposure to secondhand smoke can cause irregular heartbeats, which can lead to an
arrhythmia or a heart attack. She relayed a personal experience regarding a 42-yearold father who died of a heart attack. She said that as a nurse, it was part of her job
responsibility to sit with his wife and console her. The wife’s smoking habit of two packs
per day and the carcinogens she released in their home helped to kill her husband. The
overwhelming guilt and grief the wife experienced at his death was unspeakable, and
she became smokefree in order to save her children from the same fate as their father.
The choice to smoke is a personal one, and is not what she is here to talk about today.
The issue is when a person who has chosen not to smoke is exposed to secondhand
smoke, which then has an effect on their personal health. Over 950,000 Americans die
prematurely each year from cardiovascular disease. The American Heart Association’s
(AHA) research estimates that secondhand smoke causes over 37,000 preventable
deaths each year, which would be like wiping out the student body at Indiana University.
Ms. Rench said that secondhand smoke does not just affect people in their homes, but
also in their workplace. In today’s economy, not everyone can choose to walk away
from a paycheck. This proposal asks the Council to help protect these people who are
exposed to deadly carcinogens for hours and hours every day, year after year. A study
shows that people who are exposed to heavy levels of secondhand smoke in their
workplace have the same risk as someone who is a light active smoker. She said that
those in opposition to this concept have the feeling that it will hurt the economy or hurt
their business. However, there is evidence that shows this is not the case. New York
recently went smokefree. She provided a six-minute video which gave testimony from
New York residents and business owners who are now happy with the smokefree act
and have found that it did not have the negative effect they thought it would on their
sales and revenue. [Clerk’s Note: A link to this video can be viewed on the Americans
for Nonsmokers’ Rights website (www.no-smoke.org).]
Councillor Bradford asked where Indiana rates with AHA in regards to residents who
smoke. Ms. Rench said that Indiana is in the top ten, and she believes they are
currently fourth in the nation for high smoking rates. Councillor Bradford asked about
the ranking for obesity. Ms. Rench said that she knows Indiana is very high. She
agreed that the state of Indiana has one of the highest rates of stroke, as well as heart
disease, and they have many issues to address. Councillor Bradford asked if
fraternities and sororities in Bloomington are required to be smokefree as a result of
their smokefree act. Ms. Rench said that she does not know the answer to that.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 7
Councillor Bradford asked how long it takes to smoke a cigarette. He asked if it only
takes 10 minutes to smoke one cigarette, how can 20 minutes of exposure to
secondhand smoke be like smoking a pack of cigarettes? Ms. Rench said that the 20
minutes of exposure to secondhand smoke relates to the equivalent effect of a pack-aday smoker. Councillor Bradford asked if this secondhand exposure refers to one
smoker in the room or more than one smoker. Ms. Rench said that she does not have
exact statistics on the number of smokers. Councillor Bradford said that if it only takes
10 minutes to smoke a cigarette, does it not make sense that 20 minutes of exposure to
secondhand smoke would be more like smoking two cigarettes. Ms. Rench said that
the effects on a first-hand active smoker are different from those produced by
secondhand smoke. Councillor Talley said that he smoked briefly in the Marine Corps
and could smoke a cigarette in a minute and a half, so this time correlation may not be
accurate. Ms. Rench said that this comparison is simply saying that if you are a
nonsmoker who is exposed to 20 minutes of secondhand smoke every day, it is
comparable to the health effects on a pack-a-day smoker. Councillor Keller said that
spending 20 minutes in an establishment with heavy smoke, such as a bar, would be
the equivalent effects as a person smoking 20 cigarettes throughout the day.
Councillor Oliver said that although a death certificate may indicate cardiac arrest as the
cause of death, smoking and other factors could have a domino effect on that outcome.
He said that smoking seems to get most of the blame, whereas there are other factors,
such as family history and diet that contribute. Ms. Rench said that this is correct, and
she does not have those statistics with her this evening. She added that certain risk
factors add more to the increased risk of heart-related diseases. She said that obesity,
diabetes, family history, hypertension, and smoking all have added effects. Of all of
them, however, secondhand smoke is the one piece that is brought on by others’
actions and not an individual choice. She said, however, that the AHA is working on all
of these issues.
Chair Mansfield said that the proposal that is before the Committee deals specifically
with the effects of secondhand smoke and does not deal with these other issues. She
asked members and the public to speak specifically to health issues that relate directly
to the proposal.
PROPOSAL NO. 45, 2005 - amends the Code by establishing nonsmoking areas
(Several public hearings are anticipated on this proposal before a recommendation is
made to the full Council. The proposal was postponed for action until May 5, 2005.)
Councillor Bowes said that he has consulted with many individuals, taken into account
editorials in the Indianapolis Star, and reviewed the position statement provided by the
Greater Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, which is a result of the hard work of their
task force created to study this issue. He moved, seconded by Councillor Talley, to
“Amend” Proposal No. 45, 2005 with a substitute version of the proposal.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 8
Councillor Bowes outlined the proposed amendments. He stated that there were
concerns that the ordinance went too far and proposed to regulate outdoor areas. He
said that the substitute version eliminates much of the language dealing with smokefree
outdoor areas, such as outdoor designated smoking areas, ATM lines, bus stops, taxi
stands, and outdoor areas where food or drink is sold. He said that there was also a lot
of concern about public parks and the effect on children of seeing examples of smoking,
as well as being exposed to secondhand smoke, and using tax dollars to clean up the
litter from cigarette butts. He said that there was a strong outcry that banning smoking
in an outdoor park, however, had gone too far, so this amendment eliminates that
restriction. He said that Councillor Bradford’s concerns about the 50-feet protected area
around an entrance or exit to a building was taken into consideration. He said that he
walked down Washington Street the other day and counted the distance from one
building entrance to another, and the concerns are valid, as the distance was usually
well short of 50 feet. This proposed amendment reduced that protected area to 10 feet.
Outdoor seating areas provided by a bar or restaurant are still covered by this proposal,
unless there is no roof structure, in which case an exemption has been provided. He
added that the other proposed change takes into account those nightclub
establishments that are clearly where people go to smoke, such as a tobacco bar or
cigar and martini bar. These are labeled as tobacco bars in the ordinance and a
definition is included to qualify such establishments. He said that the only other
language change was that if an establishment is in a position to claim an exemption,
they would have to provide written proof that they meet the qualifications for exemption
to an inspection authority. Councillor Bowes said that he hopes this amended language
helps to address the concerns of many individuals and business owners.
Chair Mansfield said that she personally would prefer that public parks remain covered
by the ban, but it is important to recognize that in order to get this accomplished in the
community at this time, they are being eliminated. She said that she has heard many
concerns about this issue but realizes that to be successful with this ordinance, some
compromises need to be made. She added that with regards to the tobacco bar, the
key requirement is that tobacco products be purchased in the establishment and make
up a certain percentage of sales. She said that this makes these establishments very
similar to a retail tobacco shop.
Councillor Bowes said that there has been concern over the proposal’s adverse
economic effect on some establishments. He said that they will continue dialogue both
formally and informally to address concerns that arise. He said that some may feel this
amendment does not go far enough, but the dialogue has not ended, and there may still
be some other issues that need to be addressed.
Councillor Bradford asked when this amendment was prepared. He said that he spent
three hours with Councillor Bowes this morning, and wonders if the amendment was
available for him to review at that time. Councillor Bowes said that he has been in
discussion with several people for weeks on this proposal. With regards to this
particular amendment, he took his first stab at the language late last night, but did not

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 9
complete it until approximately 5:00 p.m. this evening. Councillor Bradford asked who
worked on that language with him. Councillor Bowes said that he had dialogue with
other sponsors and members of the industry.
Councillor Bradford said that he cannot support this amendment. He said that the
language in the proposal with regards to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is not
really appropriate, as someone with asthma might have problems in any environment,
and would not frequent a place where smoking was allowed. Councillor Bowes said
that this amendment does not include any changes to the original language that
references the ADA, and therefore that discussion is not germane to his motion.
Councillor Bradford referred to the definitions section and asked what a Type 210
license is. Councillor Bowes said that it is his understanding that this is a license to sell
beer, wine and liquor within city limits. Councillor Bradford asked what a 209 license is.
Councillor Bowes said that he understands that is a license issued to anyone outside
the corporate city limits. Councillor Bradford asked if Councillor Bowes knows what a
215 or 214 license is. Councillor Bowes said that he does not know. Councillor
Bradford said that these deal with hotel licenses inside and outside the city limits.
Councillor Bradford said that this new language implies that it is okay if a business
owner has a three-way liquor license inside the old Fire District of Indianapolis.
Therefore, any establishment outside of the old city Fire District limits that sells tobacco
products would not meet the definition. Nor would a restaurant that sells tobacco
products but does excessive amounts of food sales, because their tobacco sales are
not 10% of their total sales. He said that this language basically exempts one bar, and
he asked if other bar owners who sell tobacco products were consulted on these
amendments.
Councillor Bowes said that there is a motion and second on the floor to “Amend”
Proposal No. 45, 2005, and Councillor Bradford’s questions about who was involved in
drafting the amendment are not the issue at this point. He said that the process will
continue, and the substance of the amendment should be the only thing up for
discussion at this time.
Councillor Keller said that he is not an expert on the types of liquor licenses, but it is not
his intent to exclude someone outside of the old Fire District. He said that he would be
in favor of looking at this to include other types of licenses so that no one business is
favored over another. He added that the 10% of sales requirement came from New
York’s smokefree act, and it is not his intent to put someone out of business whose core
business is selling tobacco products.
Councillor Day asked if there is only one tobacco bar. Chair Mansfield said that she is
not a frequenter of tobacco bars so she does not know if there is only one in existence
or not. She added that the sponsors wanted to come up with criteria to insure that
those who make their living off of tobacco sales would be exempt. Councillor Bowes
said that he does not know how many establishments fit within this definition, but he

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 10
was careful to put the definition in a category so that any establishment meeting the
criteria would be allowed the exemption, instead of just naming specific establishments.
He added that Councillor Bradford referred to a restaurant which might sell tobacco
products but not meet the 10% of sales criteria. He said if a business is only doing 1%
of their sales in tobacco, then they are not a business that is at risk of losing their
business without this exemption. He said that this definition is to cover a business that
is specifically designed around the sale of tobacco items. He said that it would
ultimately be up to the full Council to determine if that percentage should be higher or
lower. He said that this criteria would keep businesses from selling one pack of
cigarettes a day in order to prevent going smokefree. This exemption is for businesses
that are focused on tobacco use and sales.
Councillor Oliver said that the original intent was to protect the health of children, who
cannot always make decisions for themselves. He asked if it would be too far to go to
just say that smoking is prohibited anywhere children are allowed legally. Anywhere
children are not allowed, such as bars, could decide for themselves based on the
demand of the marketplace. Chair Mansfield said that although this Committee’s name
is the Children’s Health and Environment Committee, this does not mean that every
issue they deal with only applies to children. The smokefree air act was actually
designed to benefit workers in the workplace. Councillor Bowes agreed and added that
this is a decision about protecting the entire community, and not just children. This
proposal takes into account protection for workers in offices, restaurants, bars, and
factories, as well as patrons who want to frequent these establishments. He said that
the real question is where the line should be drawn as to how much action should be
taken to protect the community and which segments of the community should be
protected. He said that part of that question includes how intrusive the government
should be and whether or not there is a good reason for intrusion. He said that this
proposed amendment does not preclude any further amendments, but simply proposes
to narrow down the focus of what was admittedly a broad ordinance.
Councillor Bradford said that he is a member of this Committee and he represents a
district called Broad Ripple that is six minutes away from the Hamilton County line.
Every new liquor license issued in Broad Ripple requires a family room. If Councillor
Oliver’s suggestion is accepted, all of these establishments would change to over-21
establishments and then family eating options in the area would be extremely limited.
He said that individuals keep comparing this ordinance to New York and Florida, but
those are entire states. By outlawing smoking just within the city limits, many
businesses may relocate to surrounding areas where smoking is allowed. He said that
limiting this ordinance to places where children are not allowed will force businesses to
offer service only to those 21 and older, and then children may not ever be able to visit
a place like St. Elmo’s Steak House. He said more communication is needed, and not
all Committee members have been included in discussions. He said that he cannot
support this ordinance because he just received it and has not been able to review it
adequately. He added that there are restaurant and convention center representatives
whose views should be taken into consideration. He said that three of the public forums

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 11
are scheduled within 8 days of each other at 5:00 p.m. during spring break, and he will
not be able to attend. Then one final forum is scheduled for April 14, and a vote is
scheduled before the Indianapolis 500 and the Brickyard 400. He said that he thinks
the Committee should scale back and take a breather to have more input on the drafting
before moving forward. He said that most of these Committee members are new
Councillors, and he feels the process should not be so rushed.
Chair Mansfield said that she has heard Councillor Bradford both publicly and
personally make the statement that he does not care how the proposal is amended,
because he will not vote to pass it anyway. Councillor Bradford said that he indicated
that he may vote the proposal out of Committee, but he will vote against it on the
Council floor. He said that he does not believe the government has a right to tell him as
a business owner what to do. He said that ten times the amount of people in this
country are dying from obesity than what are dying from secondhand smoke, and
priorities are wrong in his opinion. He said he spent quite a bit of time speaking with
Councillor Bowes this morning, but after watching a movie called “Supersize Me,” feels
there are other more important issues. He said that the health community and
restaurant community should be part of these types of amendments which are brought
before the Committee in such a short period of time that there is no time for review.
Councillor Bowes said that it is correct that he spent some time with Councillor
Bradford, who is asking Committee members to be more communicative with him.
However, how should Committee members feel encouraged to be communicative when
Councillor Bradford openly and publicly admits there is no way the ordinance can be
changed to his satisfaction? Therefore, why would the sponsors spend time
communicating with someone whose mind is made up, when there are plenty of other
people who are willing to listen and give constructive input into how this ordinance can
best meet the needs of the community? He said that Councillor Bradford is only one
member of a community and one view, and just as one of Councillor Bradford’s
constituents told him this morning that he did not represent her views, so he does not
represent the views of the entire Council.
Councillor Talley said that there is a lot of passion about this issue. He said that
Councillor Bowes’ amendment shows some flexibility and lets people know that the
Committee is listening to the testimony given. He said that Councillor Bradford has the
right to support or not support the proposal, as he has said. He said that he hopes to
hold a Children’s Health and Environment summit in Councillor Bradford’s district at the
Glendale Mall that will address some of the other issues raised by Councillor Bradford
this evening. Councillor Bradford said that he would be glad to help with that as long as
he can be informed as to the dates and location before it happens. He said that
communication needs to happen with all members and with people in the hospitality
industry, because this affects their livelihood. He said that including only one type of
liquor license in this amended version shows ignorance and reinforces that there was
no communication involved. Councillor Talley said that he does not believe it was a
matter of ignorance, but that there is a need for communication. He stated that they are

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 12
just now forming the ideas for the summit, which will not take place until August, and he
will make sure Councillor Bradford is fully informed.
Councillor Keller said that there have been a lot of e-mails, phone calls, and discussions
on this issue outside of the public hearings. He said that with all of the input he has
received, he feels very comfortable with this amendment. He said that all members are
willing to listen and respond, and he suspects the proposal will be amended again
before its final passage. Given the input they have had so far, he feels it is responsible
to amend the proposal at this time. He said that dialogue will not be cut off with the
industry or anyone else, and further amendments can come at a later time.
Councillor Bowes’ motion to “Amend” Proposal No. 45, 2005 carried by a vote of 5-2,
with Councillors Bradford and Day casting the negative votes.
Councillor Bradford said that more people need to participate in the process, and a lot of
people have been excluded. He said that the state of Indiana allows 18-year-olds to
work in establishments that serve alcohol because there are not enough people to work
in these places. State law also allows performers in gentlemen’s clubs who are under
the age of 21, yet this ordinance would change that. He said that they need to be
careful when drafting these types of ordinances and not base it solely on the medical
perspective.
[Clerk’s Note: Councillor Talley left at 8:04 p.m.]
Chair Mansfield asked for public questions with regards to the materials presented by
Nurse Rench.
Joe Wilson, citizen, stated that he has attended all of the Committee’s meetings. He
said that he believes the Committee is on the right track by making some compromises.
He added that most taverns are required to have tobacco permits now, and the
Committee may want to look into that requirement to see how it relates to the ordinance.
Chair Mansfield stated that Dr. John Pless is another medical representative that
became available after the agenda for this meeting was already posted. Councillor
Bowes said that he was the one who asked Dr. Pless to share some of his insight. He
asked Dr. Pless to share his background and experience and share his comments
about death certificates and the links between cause of death and contributing factors.
Dr. Pless said that he is a forensic pathologist who has spent 40 years examining
people who are victims of a variety of environmental problems in the community. He
said that only the conclusive findings such as emphysema, coronary artery disease, or
lung cancer, are actually included in an autopsy report, but they could be clearly
correlated with a history of smoking. Councillor Bowes asked if there is a difference
between a death certificate filed with the health department and what might be included
in an autopsy. Dr. Pless said that there is. He said that the death certificate has the
ultimate cause of death, and it is possible a physician might list exposure to cigarette

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 13
smoke as a contributory cause. He said that an autopsy report lists only the findings in
the surgical examination of the body and conclusions as to manner of death, such as
carbon in lungs, excessive secretions, cystic cavities, or damage to coronary arteries.
He said that all of these findings indicate exposure to smoke and they would ask about
that exposure history.
Councillor Bradford asked if these reports would also note depression or obesity. Dr.
Pless said that these factors might be listed in the medical history of the person, but
would not be listed in the actual findings. Councillor Bradford asked if insurance
companies base their payout rates on autopsies or death certificates. Dr. Pless said
that they are going to base that information on the specific history of that individual, and
smoking or nonsmoking is one of the criteria. Councillor Bradford asked in a case
where an individual is overweight, is a smoker, and has a history of depression, if that
information is taken into account in the autopsy report. Dr. Pless said that obesity is
listed as a finding on an autopsy report, whereas smoking history is not. Councillor
Bradford used the example of a worker in an Indiana toll booth. Although this person
may not smoke, he asked if their exposure to carbon monoxide would show the same
kinds of findings. Dr. Pless said that it would probably not show up on a toll booth
worker, but if a person worked in a garage with poor ventilation, they could show the
same findings.
Councillor Oliver asked for a definition of natural causes, which might be listed on a
death certificate. Dr. Pless said that homicide is when one person is responsible for the
death of another, suicide is when a person takes their own life, accident is when
something on the outside caused death suddenly and unexpectedly, and natural is
everything left over and includes disease inside the body. He said that this does not
necessarily take into consideration the matter of a person’s lifestyle.
Councillor Bowes said that the conversation earlier revolved around there possibly
being a whole set of factors causing death. He asked if a forensic pathologist can
distinguish between one factor or another and determine the true cause of death. Dr.
Pless said that there is no way from the autopsy itself to make that determination. A
person’s medical history must be used to make that determination. Councillor Bowes
asked if once the history is examined, if one or another potential cause can then be
ruled out. Dr. Pless said that because smoking causes a multitude of diseases, if an
individual has more than one of those diseases, the likelihood is pretty significant that
the individual was a smoker.
Councillor Bradford said that he has attention deficit disorder and takes Ritalin and is
therefore more susceptible to other vices if he does not control his medical condition.
He said that the point he is trying to make is that there are many factors that determine
a person’s life expectancy, and inherited susceptibilities also play a part. He said that
he does not believe smoking is good for anyone, and he hated that his father was a
smoker. That is one of the reasons his restaurant is non-smoking, but it was his choice,
and it should be a matter of choice.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 14
Chair Mansfield said that discussion this evening referred to the Chamber of
Commerce’s position, and she asked Mark Fisher, business advocacy manager for the
Chamber, to comment on the amendment. Mr. Fisher said that their position supports a
ban with limitations, and this amendment does not address their concerns. He said that
the Chamber formed a task force of volunteer members to decide what position to take,
and the outcome was unanimous. He said that he would like the opportunity to bring
their members and volunteers before the Committee to discuss their position. He stated
again that this amendment does not address their concerns. Chair Mansfield asked if
the amendment addresses any of the Chamber’s concerns. Mr. Fisher said that it
addresses only the retail tobacco stores and cigar bars. Chair Mansfield said that the
amendment also includes changes regarding the Chamber’s concerns about service
lines at ATMs and other outdoor venues. Mr. Fisher said that their position is that they
want no regulation of any outdoor areas.
Medical Student Council Resolution – Representatives from the Indiana
University School of Medicine Student Body
Jeff Wells, Andrew Bridges, and Becky Epstein, fourth-year medical students at
the Indiana University School of Medicine (IUSOM), introduced Anthony Harris,
president of the Medical Student Council and author of the resolution. Mr. Wells
said that as future medical caregivers, they wanted to present a resolution to the
Committee this evening because of their concern for the health of their
community today. Mr. Harris stated that they want to present the voice of
students in the medical field with regards to this important issue. He read the
resolution for the Committee and those in attendance (attached as Exhibit B).
Councillor Bradford asked how many medical students there are. Mr. Harris said
that he represents 1,000 students. Councillor Bradford asked why there are only
18 votes. Mr. Harris said that these are voting student council members.
Councillor Bradford asked how many of these 18 voting members are
nonsmokers. Mr. Harris said that he is not sure but knows that at least one is a
smoker. Councillor Bradford asked if the council has a resolution for obesity and
alcohol use as well. Mr. Harris said that he began as president in January and
he instituted the idea of resolutions with his administration, and this is the first
one issued. He said that they will look at other issues and resolutions throughout
the year. Councillor Bradford asked if this is the first resolution in the history of
Indiana University. Mr. Harris said that he cannot testify to that, but this is the
first one for which he has seen documentation. Councillor Bradford asked if he
could then expect one for obesity, since that health hazard is ten times as
deadly. Mr. Harris said that he cannot speak on measures that have not yet
been before the council. Councillor Bradford asked if the 18 members are
elected by the entire council body of 1,000. Mr. Harris said that this is correct.
Councillor Bradford asked what percentage of the members show up to vote for
the council. Mr. Harris said approximately 80% show up to vote.

Children’s Health and Environment Committee
March 24, 2005
Page 15
Chair Mansfield thanked the students for their presentation and stated that the
next meeting will be a forum open to the public on March 30, 2005 at the Pecar
Health Center at 6940 North Michigan Road at 5:00 p.m. She encouraged the
public to contact their Councillors with their views on this ordinance.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:28 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Angela Mansfield, Chair
AM/ag


