
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY UTILITIES
DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
Stormwater
SW12 Erosion Control
June 2015

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

SW12.01 – Purpose
The purpose of this Chapter is to:
1.

Establish authority;

2.

Outline the principles for the control of soil erosion and sediment for
land disturbing activities during construction;

3.

Identify resources for the development of a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP);

4.

Provide guidance on appropriate Best Management Practices (BMP);
and

5.

Provide requirements specific to the City of Fort Wayne for SWPPP
development, implementation, submittal, and review.

For acceptable erosion control materials, refer to Chapter MA5 - Stormwater
Materials and Testing Requirements.

SW12.02 – Authority
Title 327 IAC 15-13 (Rule 13) requires municipalities designated as Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) to facilitate plan review for erosion
and sediment control on construction sites and to make their requirements
at least as stringent as Title 327 IAC 15-5 (Rule 5). The City of Fort Wayne is
designated an MS4 under Rule 13, thus requiring erosion and sediment
control for land disturbing activities within its jurisdiction at least as stringent
as Rule 5. The City has established processes for submittal, review, approval,
inspection, and enforcement of construction site erosion and sediment
control.
The purpose of Rule 5 as stated in Title 327 IAC 15-5.1 is:
“… to establish requirements for stormwater discharges from construction
activities of one (1) acre or more so that the public health, existing water
uses, and aquatic biota are protected.”
Land disturbing activities applicable under Title 327 IAC 15-5-2 shall comply
with Rule 5 and the additional requirements outlined herein. Exhibit SW12-1
provides submittal requirements for land disturbing activities within the
jurisdiction of the City of Fort Wayne. Refer to Rule 5 for further definitions.

SW12.03 – Principles
The City of Fort Wayne requires implementation of the following principles at
construction sites:

June 1, 2015

1.

Reduce soil loss from all construction sites.

2.

Improve the water quality of storm runoff from construction sites.

3.

Prevent accumulation in water bodies of silt and debris originating from
construction activity.

4.

Prevent discharges of chemicals, chemical wastes and other pollutants.
1

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

5.

Prevent migration of construction debris off site.

6.

Prevent damage to properties adjacent to construction sites.

7.

Protect “state waters”, wetlands, and other environmentally sensitive
areas from damage.

8.

Apply Low Impact Development (LID) practices for erosion and sediment
control.

These principles shall be achieved by implementation of structural and nonstructural BMPs in accordance with the regulatory and technical standards
provided in Section SW12.04.

SW12.04 - Regulatory and Technical Standards
The minimum regulatory standards that shall be followed include:
1.

Stormwater Runoff Associated with Construction Activity (“Rule 5”)
Indiana Administrative Code Title 327 IAC 15-5.
A copy of Rule 5 may be downloaded from the state’s website at
http://www.in.gov/legislative/iac/iac_title?iact=327.

2.

Stormwater Runoff Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System Conveyances (“Rule 13”) (Title 327 IAC 15-13).
A copy of Rule 13 may be downloaded from the state’s website at
http://www.in.gov/legislative/iac/iac_title?iact=327.

3.

City of Fort Wayne Code of Ordinances (Chapter 53, Section 53.70).
Chapter 53 may be reviewed in the City Clerk’s office, or downloaded
from the City’s website at http://www.cityoffortwayne.org/city-code.html.

At a minimum, erosion and sediment control BMPs shall be designed,
implement and maintained in accordance with:
1.

Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, October 2007, as amended
(Indiana Department of Environmental Management, IDEM).
A copy of the manual may be downloaded from the state’s website at
http://www.in.gov/idem/4899.htm .

2. City of Fort Wayne City Utilities Design Standard Manual Stormwater
Chapter SW11 - Stormwater Management.
Additional information on the development of Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plans (SWPPP) is available through the US Environmental
Protection Agency at
http://water.epa.gov/polwaste/npdes/stormwater/upload/sw_swppp_guide.
pdf.

SW12.05 - Best Management Practices
Construction site BMPs are required during all land disturbing activity until
construction is completed and 70% of the permanent site ground cover is
established. Construction site BMPs include not only erosion and sediment
June 1, 2015

2

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

control (structural BMPs), but also material management and site
management. Construction site and material management and Low Impact
Design (LID) are considered nonstructural BMPs. Several LID nonstructural
techniques can be used on construction sites and are included in Figure
SW12.1. The listed materials and techniques outline typical erosion control
requirements for the majority of utility projects. When projects require
additional erosion control methods refer to the Indiana Storm Water Quality
Manual.
Figure SW12.1 provides information on the applicability and functions of
typical construction site BMPs and categorizes them as nonstructural or
structural. More detail on the BMPs can be found in the technical standards
of this section, City Utilities Design Standards Manual Materials book or
vendors for proprietary BMPs
Fort Wayne City Utilities has developed requirements which are specific to
Fort Wayne and warrant attention in preparing and implementing SWPPPs.
The following list comprises additional requirements for specific BMPs
provided in Figure SW12.1, which are more stringent and/or more detailed
than those found in Rule 5 or the technical standards.
1.

A minimum 50 foot buffer.
Maintain a minimum 50 foot buffer along all water bodies except where
bank or stream disturbance is necessary for construction, or access.
Existing vegetation in the riparian buffer shall be protected to the
maximum extent practicable. No staging or stockpiling is allowed in the
riparian buffer. These restrictions are to be clearly indicated on the
drawings and in specifications.

2.

Site phasing.
Sites shall be "phased" in such a way that grading, construction, and
stabilization are completed with each phase reaching an acceptable
level of stabilization before grading begins on the next phase.
Acceptable phased stabilization is achieved when the density of the
vegetation cover has reached 70% cover. Streets shall be stabilized with
the selected paving material or a temporary stabilization material as
soon as possible after street profile has reached sub-grade elevations.
These restrictions are to be clearly indicated on the drawings and in
specifications.

June 1, 2015

3

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

Figure SW12.1 BMP Applicability and Function

BMP Description
Nonstructural
LID
Protect Critical Site Features
Minimize Soil Compaction
Protect Existing Trees
Cluster Development
Preserving Existing Vegetation
Site and Material Management
Construction Phasing
Topsoil Salvage and Utilization
Good Housekeeping (multiple practices)
Temporary Construction Ingress/Egress Pad
Concrete Washout Area
Street Sweeping
Contaminated Material Management
Structural
Temporary Seeding/Mulching
Permanent Seeding/Planting
Post-Construction Structural Controls for
Construction Sediment Control
Inlet Protection
Perimeter Control, including silt fence
Water Bars
Erosion Control Blanket
Temporary Diversions
Turf Reinforcement Mat
Rip Rap Slope Protection
Permanent Diversions
Perimeter Diversion Dikes
Grass Lined Channels
Rip Rap Lined Channels
Soil Roughening
Temporary Slope Drains
Sediment Traps
Check Dams
Temporary Stream Crossing

Applicability

All sites
All sites
All sites
Multiple lots
All sites

Function
Erosion
Sediment
Control
Control

Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes

Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate

All sites
All sites
All sites
All sites
All sites
All sites
All sites

Moderate
Yes
No
Yes
No
No
No

Moderate
Yes
No
Moderate
No
Yes
No

All sites
All sites

Yes
Yes

No
No

All sites

No

Yes

All sites
All sites
All sites
Steep slopes
Steep slopes or high flow
Steep slopes
Steep slopes
High flow
High flow
High flow
High flow
High flow
High flow
On-site waters
On-site waters
On-site waters

No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
Moderate
No
No
No
No
No
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
No
No
Yes
Moderate
No

3. Topsoil Stockpiling
Drawings and specifications are to state that when grading begins,
topsoil shall be stockpiled for redistribution on the site. The goal is to
place original organic materials and growth nutrients where it can best
be used to establish a good seedbed for re-vegetation operations. Soil
stockpiles that will remain for more than 30 days or are close to existing
receiving waters shall have perimeter containment measures installed
prior to beginning stockpile construction, and require stabilization
within 15 days of stockpile construction. All proposed stockpile areas
shall be shown on the SWPPP.
June 1, 2015

4

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

4. Site Management
Drawings and specifications are to state that sites shall be designed with
specific areas set aside for management of: spill prevention, material
use, delivery, and storage, solid waste, sanitary waste, and vehicle &
equipment fueling, maintenance, and cleaning to minimize the contact
between stored materials and rainfall or runoff. The fueling and
maintenance area shall have a berm or other form of secondary
containment.
5.

Temporary Construction Entrance
A temporary construction entrance is to be located and shown on the
drawings. A temporary construction entrance is to use a nonwoven
geotextile for the separation of subbase and base aggregate materials.
A. Non-Woven Geotextile Fabric
Non-woven geotextile fabric for use in temporary construction
entrances are to conform to the minimum requirements as
indicated in Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials and Testing
Requirements.

6.

Street Maintenance
Drawings and specifications are to state that adjacent public streets and
streets associated with the project shall be kept clean, accumulating
dust, sediment, and tracking from the site shall be removed.
Street sweeping of adjacent public streets shall be conducted a
minimum of twice per week. Site operators shall inspect streets daily to
evaluate if additional sweeping is required. Sweeping shall be
conducted by the close of that business day (and during the day as
needed) when sediment and other materials are tracked or discharged
onto streets. Street sweepers using water while sweeping are preferred
in order to minimize dust. Flushing off paved surfaces with water is
prohibited.

7.

Concrete Washout Area
The Engineer is to select the location of and design the requirements for
the concrete wash out area based on the site and construction
conditions. Pit or bermed washout areas and prefabricated concrete
washout system are both allowed. Pit or bermed washout areas are to
be lined with a ten-mil polyethylene lining.

8.

Contaminated Material Management
The Engineering shall specify additional measures for contaminated
material management and groundwater remediation where there is
known contamination by toxic, radioactive, or other hazardous
materials.

June 1, 2015

5

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

9.

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

Bank and Pipe Stabilization
Drawings and specifications are to require pond banks and inlet/outlet
pipes shall be stabilized within one week of pond installation.
Stabilization shall include, at a minimum, erosion control blanket on the
slopes of the pond extending 5-feet past the top of bank and
appropriate stabilization of the inlet/outlet pipe.

10. Detention and Post Construction Water Quality BMP Sequencing
Drawings and specifications for sites that will have detention and post
construction water quality BMPs shall install the water quality BMPs
early in the construction build-out of the site so that detention areas are
protected from sedimentation. Projects that are using underground
detention are required to install a SQU as a means of treating
potentially polluted stormwater prior to entering the detention
structure.
11. Inlet Protection
Inlet protection is required on all existing or proposed storm sewer
inlets in the vicinity of the construction site that may receive site runoff.
Vehicle and pedestrian traffic safety shall be considered when selecting
inlet protection BMPs. Four types of inlet protection are preferred:
geotextile fabric, sediment control sack, stone bags and filter socks. The
selected BMP shall be appropriate to the type of storm inlet and ground
surface at the inlet. Specifications are to require Inlet protection
cleaning at minimum every two weeks.
a. Geotextile Fabric for Inlet Protection
Geotextile fabric inlet protection may be used at existing and new
storm sewer inlets where the immediate area surrounding the inlet
is not paved. The structure shall have a height 12-inches to 18inches above the top of the inlet and a maximum post spacing of 36inches. The geotextile fabric shall meet the minimum requirements
of Chapter MA5 -Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements.
b. Sediment Control Sack for Inlet Protection
Sediment control sack inlet protection may to be specified at
existing and new inlets and catch basins where the immediate area
surrounding the inlet and/or catch basin is paved. The Engineer
shall specify proprietary devices providing a minimum filtering
efficiency of 80% of Total Suspended Solids. Sediment control sacks
shall not slow runoff into the structure such that ponding occurs in
traveling lanes of a street.
c. Stone Bags for Inlet Protection
Stone bags for inlet protection may be specified at existing and new
drop inlets and curb inlets in both paved and unpaved areas. Bags
are to be construction of nonwoven geotextile fabric and used

June 1, 2015

6

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

INDOT #5 washed aggregate gravel. The aggregate size must be
larger than the storm sewer grate openings.
d. Filter Sock for Inlet Protection
Filter Sock for inlet protection may be specified for inlets with a
drainage area of 1 acre or less. Filtrexx Inlet Protection is the
preferred manufacturer but other ‘or-equal’ manufacturers may be
considered. Filter socks shall meet for exceed the minimum
requirements of Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials and Testing
Requirements.
e. Sediment Traps of Inlet Protection
Sediment traps for inlet protection may be specified for inlets with
drainage areas of 5 acres or less. Sediment traps are to be
constructed of compacted embankment.




A nonwoven geotextile fabric meeting or exceeding the
minimum requirements Chapter MA5 - Stormwater
Materials and Testing Requirements shall be used to
separate the embankment and the aggregate materials.
Aggregate shall be as defined by INDOT Standards for
revetment riprap, must be crushed stone and must
meet the gradation requirements of Chapter MA5 Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements. The
preferred material for the Subbase Aggregate is INDOT
#5 aggregate. However, if INDOT #5 is not available,
INDOT #8 may be used.

12. Temporary Perimeter Protection - Silt Fence
Woven geotextile fabrics are to be used for silt fence sediment barriers.
Silt fences may be either standard strength or extra strength as
determined by the Engineer. Woven geotextile fabrics specified must
meet the requirement of Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials and
Testing Requirements.
13. Temporary Perimeter Protection – Filter Sock
Filter Socks are to be biodegradable material containing a coarse
composted material. Filtrexx Sediment Control Soxx is the preferred
manufacturer but ‘or equals’ can be considered. The Engineer is to
specify the diameter and material of the Filtrexx Sediment Control based
on the manufacturer’s design tool. Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials
and Testing Requirements provide the range of product options.
14. Sediment Control Dewatering Bag
A temporary sediment control dewatering bag shall be specified at the
discharge point of all dewatering pipes and hoses. Dewatering bags shall
be proprietary devices providing a minimum removal efficiency of 80% of
Total Suspended Solids. Dewatering bags are to be made of a nonwoven
geotextile fabric meeting or exceeding the minimum requirements for
June 1, 2015

7

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

materials and be constructed specifically for the purposes of sediment
control from dewatering pipes and hoses.

15. River / Lake Shore Protection
Coir logs may be specified to provide river and/or lake shore protection.
Coir logs can be specified with or without erosion control blankets. The
Engineer shall designate the installation requirements. If erosion
control blankets are required, long-term erosion control blankets shall
be used.
Coir logs can be specified as vegetated or non-vegetated installations.
The Engineers shall designate the installation requirements. If
vegetated installation is required, planting requirements shall also be
specified.
Required spacing is dependent on site conditions and the river and/or
lake shore bank slope. The Engineer shall designate the installation
spacing and other requirements necessary for an effective installation.
16. Erosion Control Blankets.
Erosion control blankets used on areas with a slope of 2:1 or less are to
be defined as short-term or long-term based on intended installation.
Short-term blankets are intended for installations of less than six
months and long-term blankets are required for installations of 6 to 12
months. The Engineer is to designate the type of erosion control
blanket required for each installation and/or area.
Additional requirements beyond the minimum requirements listed in
this section shall be required for slopes exceeding 2:1 and/or for
installations with a functional longevity of more than 12 months.
A. Short-term Erosion Control Blankets
Erosion control blankets with a functional longevity of 6 months or
less are defined as short-term erosion control blankets. Shortterm Erosion Control Blankets are to have the minimum
requirements listed in Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials and
Testing Requirements.
B. Long-term Erosion Control Blankets
Erosion control blankets with a functional life exceeding 12 months
are defined as long-term erosion control blankets. Blankets are to
meet the minimum requirements listed in Chapter MA5 Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements.
17. Straw bales
Straw bales shall not be utilized in areas of concentrated flow, as check
dams, or as perimeter protection.
18. Temporary Rock Check dams
June 1, 2015

8

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

Rock check dams shall be made of subbase and base aggregate
separated by a nonwoven geotextile fabric. All temporary rock check
dams not intended as permanent post-construction measures shall be
removed following construction and site stabilization.
A. Nonwoven Geotextile Fabric
Nonwoven geotextile fabric for use in temporary rock check dams
shall meet or exceed the minimum requirements of Chapter MA5 Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements.
B. Aggregate and Base Aggregate Materials
Aggregate shall be as defined by INDOT Standards for revetment
riprap, must be crushed stone and must meet the gradation
requirements of Chapter MA5 - Stormwater Materials and Testing
Requirements.
The preferred material for the base aggregate is INDOT #5
aggregate. However, if INDOT #5 is not available, INDOT #8 may be
used.
19. BMP Operation and Maintenance Manual
Construction site BMPs that will remain after construction is complete
shall require development of an Operation and Maintenance Manual.

SW12.06 - Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
The SWPPP is a plan developed to minimize the impact of stormwater
pollutants resulting from construction activities. At a minimum a SWPPP
should communicate and satisfy the following:






Identify all potential sources of pollution which may affect the
quality of stormwater discharges,
Describe the practices to be used to reduce the pollutants in the
stormwater discharges associated with construction activity
including the installation, implementation and maintenance
requirements,
Be prepared in accordance with good engineering practices, Rule 5,
and City of Fort Wayne erosion and sediment control requirements;
and
Be updated throughout construction and stabilization of the site.

1. SWPPP Submittals and Approvals
Persons preparing construction plans subject to Rule 5 are encouraged
to prepare a Conceptual SWPPP for review at the pre-planning meeting
(Chapter SW11 - Stormwater Management). The Conceptual SWPPP
shall provide sufficient information for Fort Wayne City Utilities to
identify potential problem areas (“red flags”) and determine whether or
not the conceptual plan has the potential to comply with this Section.
The plan preparer shall prepare the following for the pre-planning
meeting:
June 1, 2015

9

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

a. Exhibit SW12-2 Basic Submittal/Stormwater Red Flags
b. Exhibit SW12-4 Application for SWPPP Permit
The Final SWPPP must include detailed provisions for erosion and
sediment control during construction, and detailed provisions for postconstruction stormwater and sediment control. The preparer shall
utilize the following documents for Final SWPPP preparation and
submittal.
a. Exhibit SW12-3 Guidance document for SWPPP Submittal
b. Exhibit SW12-4 Application for SWPPP Permit
c. Exhibit SW12-5 SWPPP Technical Review and Comment Form
d. Exhibit SW12-6 Site Pan Routing Review Checklist
e. Stormwater Management Concept Plan Review Checklist
A copy of the checklist shall be filled out for each construction project
submitted for review. The location of each element listed on the
checklist shall be referenced in the checklist to facilitate efficient plan
review. City Utilities will review plan submittals for compliance with
Section SW12.04 Regulatory and Technical Requirements.
The SWPPP shall have two parts: a construction plan and a postconstruction plan. In addition to the construction plan discussed in this
Section, the SWPPP submittal shall meet the requirements for the post
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan provided in Rule 5
under 327 IAC 15-5-6.5(a)(8) and Form II-5-2 SWPPP Technical Review
and Comment Form. Post-construction measures shall meet the
requirements of Chapter SW11 - Stormwater Management.
2. Amending an Existing SWPPP
Because active construction is considered dynamic in nature, BMP
selection, modification, and SWPPP revision and amendment shall be
conducted to ensure the suitability and effectiveness of BMPs and to
mitigate erosion potential, sediment migration, and reduce site specific
pollution. Changes made prior to construction shall be submitted to
City Utilities for review. Changes discussed with Fort Wayne City
Utilities and determined by Fort Wayne City Utilities to be minor may
require only notification. Changes to the nature or location of BMPs
shall be updated on construction plans during construction and a
current SWPPP shall be maintained on site.
3. SWPPP Procedural Steps
Basic procedural steps from plan preparation through submittal, review,
and approval, and construction and post-construction stormwater
management are included below. These procedures should be
supplemented with the detailed guidance and requirements in this
Section.
a. Review Technical and Guidance Documents.
June 1, 2015

10

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

It is recommended that this section and documents referenced in
Section SW12.04 be reviewed prior to SWPPP preparation.
b. Prepare the SWPPP.
It is strongly recommended that the project site owner prepare a
conceptual SWPPP for review at the pre-planning meeting as
described in Chapter SW11 - Stormwater Management. A final
SWPPP shall be prepared for all projects subject to Rule 5. The final
SWPPP must be prepared in accordance with this Section and all
other applicable regulations.
c. Submit the SWPPP for review.
SWPPPs shall be submitted to City Utilities or through the City’s
formal plan routing and review procedures. The SWPPP submittal
must include the completed forms.
d. Receive plan approval from the City and other agencies.
All aspects of each plan, including the SWPPP, must be approved by
all agencies before construction can begin. If at any point following
this step, any changes are made to the SWPPP, City Utilities must be
notified.
e. Submit a Rule 5 Notice of Intent (“NOI”) (Title 327 IAC 15-5-6).
The project site owner must complete the NOI in accordance with
Rule 5, submit the NOI and supporting documents to IDEM, and
submit a copy of the NOI and supporting documents to Fort Wayne
City Utilities a minimum of 48 hours prior to initiation of land
disturbing activities.
f.

Notify IDEM and the City Utilities of pending construction.
The project site owner must notify IDEM of the actual start date
within 48 hours of starting land disturbing activities, and must notify
City Utilities a minimum of two working days (48 working-day hours)
prior to the start of construction.

g. Begin construction.
The project site owner must implement, install, operate and
maintain the erosion and sediment control BMPs in accordance with
the approved SWPPP. During construction, revisions to the plan
and changes at the construction site should be made as necessary
to prevent pollutants, including sediment, from leaving the site. A
current SWPPP must be maintained on site.
h. Inspect erosion control measures (Title 327 IAC 15-5-10).
The site operator must conduct inspections weekly and following
rain events pursuant to Rule 5.
i.

June 1, 2015

Complete construction and submit a Rule 5 Notice of Termination
(NOT) (Title 327 IAC 15-5-8).
11

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Stormwater

Chapter SW12
Erosion Control

The project site owner must prepare and submit an NOT and
supporting documents to IDEM, and provide a copy to City Utilities
in accordance with Rule 5.
j.

Implement and maintain post-construction stormwater controls.
The individual lot owner is responsible for inspecting and
maintaining post-construction stormwater control structures and
practices that were approved in the SWPPP and drainage review.

SW12.07 - Inspections
Self- inspections to evaluate the performance and condition of construction
site BMPs shall be conducted in accordance with Rule 5 (Title 327 IAC 15-57(b)(18)). Exhibit SW12-7 Construction Site Inspection Report shall be
completed. Inspection records shall be kept on site for review by Fort Wayne
City Utilities, representatives of the City of Fort Wayne, IDEM, Allen County
SWCD, and other regulatory agencies.
BMPs with compromised performance shall be repaired or replaced
immediately. When compromised BMPs cannot be fully restored
immediately, efforts to temporarily repair BMPs or suspend work in the
affected portion of the site shall be made at the end of each work day to
prevent compromised BMPs from causing excessive erosion and
sedimentation. Any BMP improvements that are in process shall be noted on
the inspection report.

SW12.08 – Enforcement
Enforcement shall be consistent with the City of Fort Wayne Code of
Ordinances and may include stop work orders, suspension of access to the
stormwater drainage system, remediation conducted by the City and billed to
the project owner, and civil penalties and fines.

June 1, 2015

12



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHAPTER 100 POLICY AND PROCEDURES
SECTION 101 INTRODUCTION

101.01 Purpose

This Manual provides a guidebook of engineering design and construction
standards for proper stormwater management for those engineers,
builders, contractors, land planners, and property owners contemplating
some form of land alteration within the City of Indianapolis, Marion
County, Indiana. The City may also enter into interlocal agreements to
extend jurisdiction of the Section 561 Drainage and Sediment Control
Ordinance and this Manual to excluded cities within Marion County.
Included are departmental policies relating to stormwater management
and flood control, submittal requirements and procedures for issuance of a
stormwater permit, and procedures for inspection, testing, and final
acceptance of stormwater facilities.
The contents of this Manual have been adopted by the Department of
Public Works (the “Department”) in conformance with standard
promulgation procedures listed in Section 561 - 321 "Authorization to
promulgate regulations" to accomplish the following objectives:
Provide for consistent, high quality project evaluation and design by
consolidating current departmental standards and "policies" within a
single, well organized, and easily referenced document.
Provide a clear explanation of what is required for stormwater
management plan submittals and project reviews.
Ensure consistency in review of stormwater permit applications and
land alteration plans by the stormwater permit staff.
Improve the ability of contractors to properly and consistently install
stormwater facilities, with a high level of workmanship, according to
the approved stormwater management plan.
Meet community needs for minimizing the impacts of new
development and redevelopment projects on existing stormwater
management facilities.
This Manual was developed with the assumption that its user will possess a
basic understanding in the area of civil engineering design, construction, or
land alteration, depending upon that persons particular area of expertise.
Readers of this Manual which are not qualified by education and
experience in the field of construction, engineering, or land alteration should
consult with a more qualified person or persons possessing professional
expertise in one or more of these fields prior to application of the
requirements set forth herein.
This Manual, together with all future revisions, shall be referred to as the
"City of Indianapolis Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications."
All information required to be submitted by this Manual will be made
available to any person upon written request to the Division.

101.02 Applicability

This Manual applies to all projects as stated and defined in Section 561 103 "Land alterations to be accomplished in accordance with drainage

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-1
January 2011 - FINAL

requirements" and Section 561 - 109 "Land alteration defined." These
sections of the ordinance state that any land alteration must be
accomplished in conformity with stormwater requirements where the
definition of land alterations shall mean any on-site or off-site action taken
relative to land which either:
1. Changes the contour; or
2. Increases the runoff rate or volume; or
3. Changes the elevation; or
4. Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed; or
5. Changes the drainage pattern; or
6. Creates or changes a stormwater facility; or
7. Involves construction, enlargement or location of any building on a
permanent foundation; or
8. Increases the delivery of point and/or non-point source pollution to
streams; or
9. Creates an impoundment.
This Manual should be used in conjunction with Section 561 (Drainage
and Sediment Control). Additional requirements related to land alteration
may be found in Zoning Ordinance 92-AO-6 (Flood Control Districts Zoning
Ordinance). Exceptions to the provisions of this Manual are provided in
Section 561 - 221 "When drainage permits required; enforcement;
exceptions."
Improvements to an existing developed site that is not developed to
current stormwater design standards and disturbs => 1/2 acre will be
required to comply with the current stormwater regulations for storm
water quantity and quality, at twice the area disturbed within the existing
contributing drainage area at the proposed site work and owned by the
project/property owner. For example if a property owner wants to add 1
acre of parking and plans to disturb 1.5 acres to do it, he would be
required to mitigate 3 acres of development within the same watershed
to meet the current storm water regulations. If there was only an
additional .75 acres of existing contributing drainage area upstream of
the disturbed area, the owner would be required to mitigate 2.25 acres of
development.
101.03 Stormwater
Manual Organization

The manual is organized to present the technical and engineering
procedures and criteria needed to comply with the City of Indianapolis
stormwater regulations. Copies of the Section 561 (Drainage and
Sediment Control) and Zoning Ordinance 92-AO-6 (Flood Control Districts
Zoning Ordinance) are presented in the Appendices of this Chapter. In
addition, the general design policy and procedures are presented.
Each chapter contains an initial section that presents all of the policy and
procedures that must be met for approval. These policy and procedures
can be considered as design criteria that are unique for approval within
the County of Marion. Bold text occurring throughout the manual

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-2
January 2011 - FINAL

represents design criteria that must be satisfied. The second section of
each chapter contains the technical information that is considered
acceptable to the Department of Public Works.

101.04 Updating

The process of updating this Manual will be in accordance with Section
561 -321. "Authorization to promulgate regulations". This manual will be
updated and revised, as necessary, to reflect up-to-date engineering
practices and information applicable to the City of Indianapolis area.
Changes to the manual will be posted on the City‟s website as they are
produced. Notification of the changes will be emailed to the DPW listserver
registrants and posted on the City website.
Notwithstanding Section 141-208 (b) of the Revised Code of Indianapolis
and Marion County, this Manual shall remain in effect until repealed or
amended by the Board of Public Works pursuant to Chapter 141 of the
Code.

101.05 Definitions and
Abbreviations

Whenever in these Standards or in any documents or instruments where
the Standards govern, the following terms, abbreviations, or definitions
are used, the intent and meaning will be interpreted as follows:
1. Abbreviations
ASTM
American Society of Testing and Materials
AASHTO American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials
ANSI
American National Standards Institute
BMP
Best Management Practice
BOD
Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CADD
Computer Aided Design and Drafting
CCTV
Closed Circuit Television
CFS
Cubic Feet per Second
CMP
Corrugated Metal Pipe
DMD
Department of Metropolitan Development
DPW
Department of Public Works
EPA
Environmental Protection Agency
Ft
Feet
GIS
Geographic Information System
HDPE
High Density Poly Ethylene
IAC
Indiana Administrative Code
IC
Indiana Code
IDEM
Indiana Department of Environmental Management
IMAGIS
Indianapolis Mapping and Geographical Infrastructure
System
INDOT
Indiana Department of Transportation
NPDES
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NRCS
Natural Resources Conservation Service
O&M
Operations and Maintenance
PVC
Poly Vinyl Chloride
RCP
Reinforced Concrete Pipe
SCS
Soil Conservation Service
SQU
Stormwater Quality Unit
TN
Total Nitrogen
TP
Total Phosphorus
TSS
Total Suspended Solids

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-3
January 2011 - FINAL

2. Definitions
ACCEPTANCE: The formal written acceptance by the Division or
Department of an entire project which has been completed in all
respects in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and
this Manual including any previously approved modifications thereof.
ADMINISTRATOR:
Administrator of the
Enforcement, or their authorized representative.

Office

of

Code

ANTECEDENT SOIL MOISTURE CONDITIONS: Soil moisture
conditions of the watershed at the beginning of a storm. These
conditions affect the volume of runoff generated by a particular storm
event. Notably they affect the peak discharge only in the lower range
of flood magnitudes. As the frequency of a flood event increases,
antecedent moisture has a rapidly decreasing influence on runoff.
APPLICANT: The property owner and/or their agent who requests
and fills out an application for any type of permit or agreement
required by this Manual.
APPROVAL: Decision that allows the applicant to proceed to the
next step of the permitting process set out in this Manual.
BACKFILL:
Material used to replace material removed from
trenches during construction which is above the haunching (See
Figure 501.04).
BEDDING: The material used in the trench to a minimum depth
below the bell/barrel of the pipe for the purpose of properly
supporting the pipe (See Figure 501-04).
BMP OWNER: The owner of the BMP, typically the property owner.
The BMP owner may also be the lessee of property in the case of
long term leases of commercial or industrial zoned properties. The
lessee is considered the BMP owner only if the lease specifically
states that construction by the lessee must meet applicable local
codes and regulations.
BMP, GENERAL:
Best management practice can refer to a
structural measure (wetland, pond, sand filter, etc.) or non-structural
measure (restrictive zoning, reduced impervious areas, etc.). BMPs
are designed for the benefit of water quality and quantity control. For
the purposes of this chapter, BMPs refer to structural water quality
BMPs.
BMP, MANUFACTURED:
Manufactured BMPs are wholly or
partially prefabricated and delivered to a construction site for
incorporation into the drainage system.
Water quality inlets,
cartridge filter systems, and hydrodynamic separators are examples
of manufactured BMPs.
BMP, NATURAL: Natural BMPS are practices that utilize the natural
infiltration and filtering processes of water flowing through
vegetation, sand, soil, or other media to remove suspended and or
dissolved pollutants from runoff. Examples include biofilters, rain
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-4
January 2011 - FINAL

gardens, vegetated swales.
BMP, NON-STRUCTURAL: Non structural BMPs are comprised of a
wide range of activities and/or practices that control or reduce
pollutants at their sources. Practices can include the use of natural
processes, such as increased infiltration and bio-filtration, good
housekeeping practices such as street sweeping or catch basin
cleaning, or reduction of directly connected impervious areas.
Activity based BMPs include public education, outreach, and
involvement activities, such as drain marking and creek sweeps,
zoning and regulation.
BMP, STRUCTURAL: Structural BMP, for the purposes of this
manual, are BMPs that are built on site. Detention ponds, artificial
wetlands, sand filters, and bio-filters are examples of structural
BMPs.
BOARD: The Board of Public Works – City of Indianapolis.
BRIDGE: A conveyance structure that is hydraulically short and has
a cross sectional flow-through area greater than 100 square feet.
CITY: The City of Indianapolis.
CLEAN
FILL:
Uncontaminated
nonwater-soluble,
nondecomposable, inert solid, such as rock, soil, gravel, concrete,
and/or clay products. Clean fill shall not mean processed or
unprocessed mixed construction and demolition debris, including, but
not limited to, wallboard, plastic, wood or metal. The non-water
soluble, nondecomposable inert products generated from an
approved Class B recycling facility are considered clean fill. Clean
fill cannot include any hazardous material and must comply with
environmental regulations.
CODE: Municipal Code of the City of Indianapolis
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which has been designed or
intended to receive both surface runoff and sewage.
COMMON LATERAL: A lateral which serves more than one building
or residential unit.
CONTRACTOR: Any Contractor who meets the Department‟s
requirements and is licensed by the Department of Metropolitan
Development to enter into contracts for and to perform the work of
installing storm sewers under the Department‟s jurisdiction.
CONTRIBUTING DRAINAGE AREA: Contributing drainage area
refers to the total area that contributes runoff upstream of a point of
interest, such as a development site.
COUNTY: The county of Marion, State of Indiana.
CRITICAL DEPTH: Critical depth is the depth of flow at which the
specific energy is a minimum. An illustration of critical depth is the
depth at which water flows over a weir when no other backwater
forces are involved. For a given discharge and prismatic crossCity of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-5
January 2011 - FINAL

section geometry there is only one critical depth.
CULVERT: A structure that conveys any flow collected in an open
ended pipe (i.e., headwall, flared end section, mitered end), a crossdrain. Typically this is through a roadway embankment or past some
other type of flow obstruction.
DEDICATION: The inspection, and if necessary, the rehabilitation of
a sanitary sewer facility for public acceptance, ownership, operation,
and maintenance.
DEPARTMENT: Department of Public Works, City of Indianapolis,
and any Division therein.
DEPRESSION STORAGE:
The natural depressions within a
watershed which store runoff. Generally after the depression storage
is filled runoff will commence.
DETENTION: Any process or facility that detains stormwater runoff,
reducing the peak flow rate from the drainage area and prolonging
the duration of the rain event hydrograph.
DIGITAL DATA SUBMISSION STANDARDS: Standards in which
the City of Indianapolis can integrate CADD drawings into the GIS
and IMS environment thus maintaining the integrity and positional
accuracy of the data.
DIRECTOR: Director of the Department of Public Works, City of
Indianapolis, or their authorized representative.
DIVISION: The Office of Code Enforcement,
representative

or their authorized

EASEMENT: Areas along the line of all public drainage facilities
which are outside the road easements or rights-of-way, and are
recorded and dedicated to the Department granting rights along the
line of the drainage facility.
EFFECTIVE DRAINAGE AREA: The drainage area from a specific
site, excluding offsite drainage, where offsite drainage either does
not exist or bypasses the site through culverts or other means.
ENGINEER: The Engineer for the Owner.
EXISTING CONDITIONS: The site conditions that existed on the
property 12 months prior to the date of application for a drainage
permit.
FIELD TILE/SUBSURFACE DRAIN: Under drain systems in fields
that have been installed for the purpose of dewatering fields that are
subject to seasonably high water tables.
FINAL BACKFILL: Material used to replace material removed from
trenches during construction which is above the initial backfill (See
Figure 501.04).
FIRST FLUSH: The first flush is a term applied to the onset of the
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-6
January 2011 - FINAL

rainfall/runoff process wherein most loose, unattached pollutants on
the land or street surface are readily entrained into the stormwater
runoff and wash off the surface into the drainage system. For many
pollutants their highest concentrations during the runoff event will
occur during the first flush.
FLOATING DEBRIS (FLOATABLES): Any solid waste that, due to
its physical properties, will float on the surface of water. For the
purposes of this manual, the term does not include naturally
occurring floatables, such as leaves or tree limbs.
FOUNDATION DRAINS: Any network of pipes, pumps or drainage
mechanism located at, near, or under a footing, foundation or floor
slab of any building or structure that intentionally or unintentionally
conveys groundwater away from a building or structure.
FREE OUTLETS: Outlets whose tailwater is equal to or lower than
critical depth. For culverts and storm drains having free outlets,
lowering of the tailwater has no effect on the discharge or the
backwater profile upstream of the tailwater.
FREEBOARD: An additional depth regarded as a safety factor,
above the peak design water elevation.
FREQUENCY: The average time interval between equal magnitude
floods. For example, a 25-year flood has the probability of
occurrence of once every 25 years on the average, or a 4 percent
chance of occurrence in any given year.
HAUNCHING: The area in the trench from the top of the bedding to
the springline of the pipe. (See Figure 501.04).
HYDRAULIC ROUGHNESS:
A composite of the physical
characteristics that influence the flow of water across the earths
surface, whether natural or channelized. It affects both the time
response of a watershed and drainage channel as well as the
channel storage characteristics.
HYDROGRAPH:
watershed.

Graph of the time distribution of runoff from a

HYETOGRAPH:
watershed.

Graph of the time distribution of rainfall over a

IMPERVIOUS AREA: Impervious areas are areas where the land
surface has been altered in a matter that decreases the amount of
rainwater infiltration. Impervious surfaces include rooftops, roads,
parking areas, patios, and other surfaces that retard the infiltration of
rainwater or snowmelt into the ground.
INFILTRATION: Complex process of allowing runoff to penetrate the
ground surface and flow through the upper soil surface. The
infiltration curve is a graph of the time distribution at which this
occurs.
INITIAL BACKFILL: Material used in the trench above the haunching.
(See Figure 501.04).
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-7
January 2011 - FINAL

INNOVATIVE BMP: Innovative BMPs, for the purposes of this
manual, are any BMPs that are not on the list of traditional structural
BMPs identified in Section 702. Innovative BMPs are primarily,
though not exclusively, manufactured stormwater quality units.
INTERCEPTION:
Storage of rainfall on foliage and other
intercepting surfaces during a rainfall event is called interception
storage.
INVERT: Flowline of the culvert (inside bottom).
LAG TIME (Tl): The time from the centroid of the excess rainfall to
the peak of the runoff hydrograph.
LAND DISTURBANCE: Any manmade change of the land surface,
including: removal of vegetative cover that exposes the underlying
soil, excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.
LAND SURVEYOR: A person registered as a land surveyor by the
Indiana State Board of Registration as provided by Indiana Code (IC)
25-21.5.
MAINTENANCE: Maintenance activities include cleaning, spraying,
removing obstructions from and making minor repairs in a drainage
facility so that it will perform the function for which it was designed
and constructed. Maintenance activities do not require a drainage
permit.
MANHOLE: A structure used in a sewer system to provide access for
maintenance.
MANUAL: The City of Indianapolis Department of Public Works
Stormwater Specifications and Design Standards.
Same as
Standards.
MANUFACTURER: The producer of those materials required by this
Manual having direct responsibility and authority for the satisfaction
of those minimum material specifications set forth herein.
MILD SLOPE CULVERT OPERATION:
depth is less than uniform depth.

operation where critical

NEW CONNECTION: Shall mean a connection to the drainage
system, or a repair, replacement or modification to an existing
drainage system element that increases the capacity of the system
to accommodate a proposed increase in the average daily flow.
OFFLINE STRUCTURE: Offline structures are BMPs that treat only
a fraction of the site stormwater runoff for water quality purposes.
Flows not treated by the BMP bypass the structure and re-enter the
watercourse below the BMP.
OWNER: Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or other entity
who, as property owner, is initiating the Work.
PARTIALLY SUBMERGED OUTLET: An outlet whose tailwater is
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-8
January 2011 - FINAL

higher than critical depth and lower than the height of the culvert.
PEAK DISCHARGE (Qp):
The maximum rate of flow of water
passing a given point during or after a rainfall event. Also called the
PEAK FLOW.
PERMIT:
Clearance to perform specific work under specific
conditions at specific locations.
PLANS: Construction plans which show the location, character,
dimensions, and details of the work to be done.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER:
A person registered as a
professional engineer by the Indiana State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers under IC 25-31.
RECONSTRUCTION / REHABILITATION:
Reconstruction or
rehabilitation mean any material change from the original concept of
the drainage feature, including its capacity.
Reconstruction/
rehabilitation activities require a drainage permit.
RAINFALL EXCESS: After interception, depression storage, and
infiltration have been satisfied, if there is excess water available to
runoff this is the rainfall excess.
RECORD DRAWING (AS-BUILTS): Plans certified, signed and
dated by a professional engineer or land surveyor registered in the
State of Indiana, indicating the Plans have been reviewed and
revised, if necessary, to accurately show all as-built construction and
installation details including, but not limited to, key elevations,
locations and distances.
REDEVELOPMENT:
Redevelopment means any construction,
alteration, or improvement where structures are removed and/or
replaced. Where the disturbance caused by redevelopment activities
disturbs less than 0.5 acres, no water quality BMP plan shall be
required. Staff has the discretion to exempt redevelopment activities
disturbing up to 5% more area.
REGIONAL DETENTION/RETENTION: Regional facilities provides
flood storage for off site and/or on-site watershed areas of five (5)
acres or larger.
RETENTION: Stormwater retention is a practice or structure whose
primary focus is to retain stormwater on-site through
evapotranspiration or infiltration.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: All land or interest therein which by deed,
conveyance, agreement, easement, dedication or process of law is
reserved for or dedicated to the use of the general public, within
which the Department shall have the right to install and maintain
drainage facilities.
SEWER: A pipe for carrying wastewater (sanitary sewer), storm
water (storm sewer) or a combination of both (combined sewer).
Wherever in these Standards the word “sewer” is used without
distinguishing type, “sewer” shall mean storm sewer.
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-9
January 2011 - FINAL

SPECIFIC ENERGY: The sum of the depth and velocity head of the
flow. Sometimes called "specific head."
STAGE The stage of a channel is the elevation of the water surface
above some elevation datum.
STANDARD DRAWINGS (DETAILS): The drawing of structures,
storm sewer lines or devices commonly used and referred to on the
Plans and in this Manual.
STANDARDS: The City of Indianapolis Department of Public Works
Stormwater Design and Construction Specifications Standards. The
requirements for the design and construction of drainage facilities
within the Indianapolis as contained herein and all subsequent
additions, deletions or revisions. Same as Manual.
STEEP SLOPE CULVERT OPERATION: condition where the
computed critical depth is greater than the computed uniform depth.
STOP WORK ORDER: An order requiring the suspension of the
pertinent construction activity for any construction project within the
City of Indianapolis.
STORM DRAIN: Underground pipe system designed to intercept
and convey stormwater runoff to an adequate outlet.
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT: A system of vegetative,
structural, and other measures that reduce or eliminate pollutants
that might otherwise be carried by surface runoff.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
SUBMERGED INLET:
(1.5D).

An inlet having a headwater greater than

SUBMERGED OUTLET: An outlet having a tailwater elevation
higher than the crown of the culvert.
TAILWATER:
Standing or running water, and specifically its
elevation, outside the downstream or outlet end of a culvert or storm
drain system.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION (tc): The time required for water to
flow from the most remote point of the basin to the location being
analyzed. Thus the time of concentration is the maximum time for
water to travel through the watershed, which is not always the
maximum distance from the outlet to any point in the watershed.
TREATMENT TRAIN: A treatment train consists of more than one
BMP in series treating stormwater runoff. Such configurations are
necessary when BMPs individually cannot meet either the 80% TSS
reduction or floatable control goal.
UNIFORM FLOW: Flow in a prismatic channel of constant cross
section having a constant discharge, velocity and depth of flow
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-10
January 2011 - FINAL

throughout the reach. In uniform flow it is assumed that the depth of
flow is the same at every section of the channel.
UNIT HYDROGRAPH: The direct runoff hydrograph resulting from a
rainfall event which has a specific temporal and spatial distribution
and which lasts for a specific duration of time (thus there could be a
5-, 10-, 15-minute, etc., unit hydrograph for the same drainage area).
The ordinates of the unit hydrograph are such that the volume of
direct runoff represented by the area under the hydrograph is equal
to one inch of runoff from the drainage area.
WATERBODY: Any area that in a normal year has water flowing or
standing above ground to the extent that evidence of an ordinary
high water mark is established.
WATERSHED: A drainage area or region consisting of all the land
from an identified, delineated or circumscribed drainage divide
draining to a single identified drainage outlet or stream mouth.
WORK: All the activities to be done under the permit, in accordance
with the approved plans, specifications, these Standards, and
conditions.

101.06 Enforcement of
Standards

Failure to comply with requirements set forth by this Manual may
necessitate enforcement actions by the Administrator or Director in
accordance with Sections 561 – 261:266 of the City Code.

101.07 Penalties

Any person violating any provisions of this Manual shall be subject to the
penalties in accordance with Section 561 - 265 of the City Code and may
be required to correct such violation at their expense.

SECTION 102 PLAN SUBMITTAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES

102.01 Professional
Certification

Professionally certified site plans, specifications, and supporting
computations shall be submitted to the Department, by a registered
professional as defined in Section 561 - 111, for review and approval prior to
the initiation of any on-site land alteration as required by Section 102.03,
“Platted Subdivisions, Commercial, and Industrial Developments of this
manual. The certification should be in the form provided by the
"Certification of Sufficiency of Plan" presented on page A1-1.

102.02 Plan Submittal
and Approval Process

A stormwater permit may be issued if the criteria listed in Section 561 –
222, “Eligibility to obtain permit,” and Section 561 – 223, "Application,
issuance" of the City Code have been met. The process illustrated in the
flowchart shown in Figure 102-1 on page A1-2 should be followed in order
to complete the entire land alteration process. It should be noted that the
stormwater permit process is only a portion of the processes shown on the
flowchart. Furthermore, it should be noted that this flowchart represents
the processes related to platted development or developments larger than 5
acres. Some of the processes may be bypassed as noted in the following
sections for non-platted development smaller than 5 acres. As a general

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-11
January 2011 - FINAL

rule, all land alterations will require a:
1.

Stormwater Permit Application;

2.

Stormwater Plans;

3.

Technical Information Report;

4.

Sediment and Erosion Control Plan.

5.

Operation and Maintenance Manual for all detention, stormwater, and
water quality structures,

6.

Drainage Permit Checklist.

Each of these is described in the following Sections. A sample
stormwater permit application is provided on page A1-3. Furthermore,
every site development project is different in nature and scope that may
result in the plan approval process being altered to accommodate the
specific considerations of the project. Therefore, the designer should
consider a pre-design meeting at which any alterations to the plan
submittal process are discussed and documented.
Progress toward completion of approved drainage plans and associated
drainage permits is subject to the time constraints defined in Section
561-224, “Professionally prepared and certified drainage plans” and
Section 561-226, “Expiration of permit by operation of law; extensions” of
the City Code.
The zoning of any properties for which drainage permits are applied must
be consistent with the proposed land use before drainage permits will be
approved.
On-site land alteration, including clear cutting, stump removal, grading,
and filling, shall not commence prior to approval of a drainage permit and
installation of all sedimentation and erosion control devices required by
the approved permit.

102.03 Platted
Subdivisions,
Commercial, and
Industrial Developments

Stormwater plans shall be submitted to the Department of Metropolitan
Development for approval for sites that comply with the criteria listed in
Section 561 – 222, “Eligibility to obtain permit,” and Section 561 - 223,
"Application, issuance" of the City Code. The following information must
be submitted for approval:
1. Construction Features. The stormwater plan shall demonstrate and
describe surface and subsurface drainage and include the following:
a. Stormwater plan: The stormwater plan shall be drawn to scale,
preferably one (1) inch per fifty (50) feet, or a sufficient scale to
accurately depict all features that affect stormwater design, and
an arrow indicating north shall appear on each page. Due to
filing limitations, the stormwater plan shall be presented on a
maximum plan sheet size of 24 inch by 36 inch. Existing and
proposed on-site land contours shall be shown at one-foot contour
intervals except where slopes are steeper than twenty (20)
percent. Off-site watershed boundary maps can be submitted at

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-12
January 2011 - FINAL

an appropriate contour interval sufficient to depict drainage areas
and slopes. A benchmark, which is easily accessible and relocatable, shall be shown. The benchmark may be assumed at
the discretion of the Director if the area contains less than three
(3) acres, but otherwise shall be determined by USGS datum.
b. Cover Sheet: A cover sheet shall be provided, including location
and vicinity map. A map that indicates the location and vicinity of
the proposed land alteration shall be included in the stormwater
plan. It shall reference a nearby major roadway intersection. The
cover sheet shall also include site address, as assigned by DMD,
the DMD Compliance Information Block and a stormwater
structure summary table. The summary table shall provide each
proposed pipe size and respective length with the number of
proposed structures.
c.

Existing and proposed stormwater facilities: The stormwater plan
shall show the locations of all existing and proposed stormwater
facilities. Storm drains and manholes and other structures shall
be located by dimensions on the plans in relation to surrounding
physical features. However, the areas where physical features
are not available, coordinates of manholes and bearings of storm
drains shall be based either on the State of Indiana's coordinate
system or latitude and longitude .
Indiana‟s State Plane
Coordinate System shall be used to identify the location of the
outlet of each BMP included it the plan. The stormwater plan shall
show the direction of flow, elevation of inverts, gradient, materials
and size of existing and proposed storm drains.

d. A drainage area map shall be presented which indicates all
existing and proposed on-site and off-site drainage areas and
flow paths to stormwater facilities, and the limits of the 100-year
floodplain for all areas with contributing drainage watersheds of
five acres or greater in accordance with Chapter 300 section
303.02;
For all Class 1 pipe (within the R/W or conveying runoff from more
than one parcel), a plan and profile shall be submitted. Storm
drain plan and profile: The plan shall be shown on the upper
portion of the drawing. The plan, generally, shall be drawn on a
scale that is clear and legible and not greater than one (1) inch
equals fifty (50) feet.
The plan shall show appropriate right-of-way and easement
limits with instrument numbers, as applicable. The profile shall
be shown under the plan and shall extend a sufficient distance
downstream of the outlet to allow any pertinent information
concerning the outfall channel to be shown.
All invert
elevations and pipe slopes shall be listed. For each pipe the
length, size, material and Class shall be annotated on the
profile sheet near the dimension line. Detail title and/or number
references shall be called out on the profile plan.
The storm drain and inlet profile shall generally be drawn on a
scale of one (1) inch equals fifty (50) feet horizontal, one (1)
inch equals five (5) feet vertical. Where a storm drain is located
inside the limits of an existing or proposed pavement or
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-13
January 2011 - FINAL

shoulder, the center line grade of the road shall be shown.
Where a storm drain is located outside pavement or shoulder,
the existing ground over the storm drain with proposed grading
shall be shown. If the storm drain is to be constructed on fill,
the profile of the undisturbed earth, at the storm drain location,
shall be shown. All utility locations at intersections with the
storm drain shall be shown.]
e. The location of the predominant soil types on the site shall be
described by a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer. The description may be determined by the NRCS
(Natural Resources Conservation Service, formerly the Soil
Conservation Service, or SCS) County Soil Survey or an
equivalent publication or as determined by a certified
professional soil scientist.
2. Additional Information. The Director shall be empowered to require
such additional information to evaluate and determine the adequacy
of the proposed stormwater facility.
3. Certification Required. All stormwater plans submitted under this
section to the Department for approval must be prepared by a
registered professional engaged in storm drainage design under
whose supervision the plans were prepared. The certificate shall be
in the form of the "Certificate of Sufficiency of Plan" shown on page
A1-1.
4. Obligation to Observe. For land alterations that are not to be
inspected and tested by the City‟s inspection program, stormwater
plans submitted under this section to the Department must include a
"Certificate of Obligation to Observe" signed by a registered
professional engaged in storm drainage design and by the Owner.
The certificate shall be as presented on page A1-9. If for any reason
the registered professional becomes uninvolved in the project prior to
its completion, the Department of Metropolitan Development must be
notified and a new registered professional must be retained by the
Owner and both a new “Certificate of Obligation to Observe” and a
new “Certificate of Sufficiency of Plan” document must be executed.
A plan submittal checklist is presented to aid the designer in
preparing land development plans on page A1-4 through A1-5. In
addition, a technical review checklist is provided on pages A1-6
through A1-8 that is used by Department staff during the stormwater
permit application review process.

102.04 Technical
Information Report

A completed Technical Information Report (TIR) which provides a
summarization of calculations, existing site conditions, specific problem
areas identified during site inspections, known neighborhood concern,
zoning commitments related to storm water management, downstream
conditions/restrictions with a justification for the level of downstream
analyses performed, and a brief description of the planned stormwater
management techniques which will be utilized to address these
conditions, is required as part of the stormwater permit application. Each
page and attachment of the TIR should be numbered and dated.
Included with this Technical Information Report shall be the following

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-14
January 2011 - FINAL

information:
1. Design Calculations. Design calculations are required as part of the
stormwater plan and shall, at a minimum, specifically include:
a. Estimation of storm water runoff. Runoff rates during the design
and Q100 return interval storms; C-values or runoff curve
numbers; and computed times of concentration. A time-ofconcentration and time-of-travel calculation sheet has been
provided on page A2-6. A C-value or runoff curve number
computation sheet has been provided on page A2-15.
Guidelines for determination of basin times-of-concentration and
runoff rates are presented within Chapter 200 of this Manual,
"Hydrology".
(1)

Drainage area calculations including both the gross and
impervious area for each drainage basin/subbasin;

(2)

Weighted curve number or runoff coefficient computations;

(3)

Time of concentration computation indicating overland flow
time, shallow concentrated flow time, and flow time in the
swale, gutter, pipe or channel.

b. Inlet grate and gutter flow computations as described in Section
305.07 and 305.08 of the Manual.
c.

Closed conduit and open channel design computations:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

Size of pipe or channel cross section
Pipe or channel inverts slope in percent;
Material and roughness coefficient;
Flowing velocities in feet per second;
Design capacity in cubic feet per second as per Section
305.03 of this Manual.

d. Storm drain flow and hydraulic grade line computations as
described in Section 305.03 and 305.04. A Storm Drain Flow
Tabulation Form has been provided on page A3-14. A Headloss
Calculation Sheet has been provided on page A3-16. A form to
assist with completion of culvert ratings has been provided on
page A3-7.
e. Erosion control methods.
Such design calculations shall
conform to the standards of 102.05 of this Chapter and all
regulations promulgated there under.
f.

BMP calculations. Pertinent calculations illustrating the correct
computation of TSS removal, water quality volumes, pollutant
load removal, etc, will be submitted using the forms included in
Chapter 700 of the Manual.

2. An explanation of computer models used, where applicable, with
information from input and output data.
3. Detention/retention summary information

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-15
January 2011 - FINAL

102.05 Erosion and
Sediment Control Plans

As stated in Section 561 - 381 "Conformance with minimum standards
for land alterations", and Chapter 600 of this document, an erosion and
sediment control plan is required for all non-single family residential land
disturbing activities of any size, and all land disturbing activities that
result in the disturbance of less than one acre of total land area and
which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
If the owner or operator is required to prepare a soil erosion control plan
under Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5), such plan shall be deemed to fulfill the
requirements of Section 561. In this case, all applicable state and
federal permits or notices for land disturbing activities shall be obtained
or filed prior to commencement of land disturbing activities. All
applicable state or federal standards shall be adhered to when
conducting land disturbing activities. Copies of all applications, letters of
intent submittals, plans and other erosion and sediment control related
information developed for and/or submitted to state or federal authorities
shall be copied to the Director of Metropolitan Development in addition to
the ESCP.
Details concerning the ESCP can be found in Chapter 600.

102.06 Operations and
Maintenance Manual

An operations and maintenance (O&M) manual for all private
infrastructure, including but not limited to pipes, ponds, ditches, and
BMPs (when required), shall be submitted for the final plan approval and
permit process. The manual will become a maintenance guide for the
drainage infrastructure once development is complete. The final O&M
manual will be provided to the City in both hard copy and digital formats.
The O&M manual maintenance agreement along with a site map
showing the BMP locations shall be recorded with the final plat. The
O&M manual will include the following:
1. Owner name, address, business phone number, home phone
number, email address, cellular phone number, pager number;
2. Site drawings (8½” by 11” or 11” by 17”), showing both plan and
cross-section views, showing the infrastructure and applicable
features, including dimensions, easements, outlet works, forebays,
signage, etc., as well as an overall site map of the development
showing all structures;
3. Guidance on both owner-required periodic inspections and
inspections to be performed by City representatives, including
reference to the use of applicable checklists and reference to
applicable inspection fees from the IndyGov web-site under the
Department of Metropolitan Development;
4. Requirement of owner to perform maintenance specified by City
inspection, if any;
5. Guidance on routine maintenance, including mowing, litter removal,
woody growth removal, signage, etc.;
6. Guidance on remedial maintenance; such as inlet replacement,
outlet works maintenance, etc.;
7. Guidance on sediment and trash removal, both narrative and
graphical, describing when sediment removal should occur in order
to insure that BMPs and other infrastructure remain effective as
water quality and/or quantity control devices;
8. A statement that the City‟s representatives have the right to enter the
property to inspect the infrastructure;

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-16
January 2011 - FINAL

9. A tabular schedule showing inspection and maintenance
requirements; and
10. Identification of the property owner as the party responsible for all
maintenance, including cost.

102.07 Single and
Double-Family
Dwellings

Site plans for single- or double-family dwellings, additions to single- or
double-family dwellings and accessory structures as described in Section
561 - 225 "When a professionally prepared and certified drainage plan is
not required" shall indicate the nature and location of all work to be
accomplished pursuant to the stormwater permit. A list of minimum
requirements for a one-family, two-family dwelling or accessory structure
is provided on pages A1-10 and A1-11.
In general, the site plan shall be neat, accurate, and legible, and include
the following information:
1. The legal description of the property;
2. The exact, legal street address for the property;
3. The dimensions and borders of the parcel;
4. The name and address of the owner;
5. An arrow indicating north;
6. Location of all existing and proposed improvements, structures,
paved areas, easements and rights-of-way on the site;
7. Existing and proposed grading showing positive drainage by
contouring or sufficient spot elevations;
8. Location and elevation of all existing and proposed swales, ditches,
culverts, drainage channels, surface or subsurface drainage devices
and the direction of flow;
All single-family residential construction with land disturbing activities
less than one-acre shall employ, at a minimum, perimeter type erosion
and sediment control practices including, but not limited to, straw bales
and/or silt fences and gravel drives. Tracking of sediment onto streets is
to be minimized through the use of perimeter controls and vehicle access
controls and limitations.

102.08 Incomplete
Stormwater Permit
Applications

102.09 Deviations from
Approved Plans

Engineering design plans and specifications submitted to the Department
for issuance of an approved stormwater permit that do not meet the
minimum requirements of Section 561 -224. “Professionally prepared
and certified drainage plans” or the contents of this Manual will be
handled as described in Section 561 – 224, “Professionally prepared and
certified drainage plans” of the City Code.

As stated in Section 561 – 227, “Notice of change in permit information;
amendment of permits and plans” of the City Code," substantial

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-17
January 2011 - FINAL

deviations from the approved site development plans and specifications
shall not be made without written approval from the Department."
Realistically, there are always minor variations to proposed plans.
Variations of ± 5 percent will be allowed without the need for approval
from the Department, though sound engineering judgment should be
exercised in assessing impacts of slightly reducing such things as
capacities or increasing such things as velocities and peak flows.
Examples of substantial deviations from the approved plan shall include,
but are not limited to, the following changes:
1. Pipe size changes.
2. Pipe grade changes that will affect the hydraulic capacity of the
stormwater facility.
3. Stormwater facility horizontal alignment changes greater than five (5)
feet. Where the proposed stormwater facility has been required to
be constructed within a right-of-way or stormwater easement,
horizontal changes that place the stormwater facility outside of the
limits of the right-of-way or stormwater easement area will not be
accepted by the Department. Storm drains constructed on privately
owned property, outside of public rights- of-way or stormwater
easements may vary more than five (5) feet in the horizontal
alignment, provided the hydraulic performance of the facility has not
been altered, and no other portion of the approved construction
plans has been changed.
1. Construction materials and installation that are not in conformance
with the requirements of this Manual.
2. Changes in grade of the site that will effect the stormwater direction,
velocity, amount or concentration or may expose structures or
streets to a greater risk of flooding than under approved plans.

102.10 Maintenance
Responsibilities

The responsibility of maintenance of stormwater facilities shall be as set
forth by Section 561 - 211. "Maintenance of drainage facilities" of the
Indianapolis City Code.
Maintenance access shall be provided to stormwater facilities as set forth
herein to assure continuous operational capacity of the stormwater
facility. As a means of providing the necessary availability for access to
stormwater facilities, sufficient stormwater easement areas or rights-ofway shall be required by the Department to achieve satisfactory present
and future drainage of the parcel and the area surrounding the parcel as
referenced in Section 561 – 232, “Execution of covenant” and Section
561 - 233 "Dedication of easement" of the City Code. A form that lists
the requirements to encroach on stormwater easements is provided on
page A1-13.

102.11 Performance
Sureties

Performance bonds or irrevocable letters of credit, made payable to the
Indianapolis Department of Metropolitan Development, may be required
to be submitted as described in Section 561 - 231, "Posting of bond."
These bonds, irrevocable letters of credit, or other accepted performance
sureties may be a part of the total bonding required by the plats
committee of the Metropolitan Development Commission. Performance

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-18
January 2011 - FINAL

sureties shall be in a form approved by the Department, and may be
based upon the contract amount for the cost to complete proposed site
improvements, including:
1. Total installed cost for storm drain pipe, culvert, manhole, and box
inlet installation, and
2. Total cost for site filling and grading, including construction of open
drainage swales and detention/retention facilities.
A separate performance surety will be required for the installation of
erosion and sediment control measures and regrading of minor drainage
collector swales. Erosion and sediment control performance sureties
shall be in a form approved by the Department, and may be based upon
the contract amount for the cost to complete proposed sediment and
erosion control installation including:
1. Re-establishment of erosion and sediment control devices,
2. Re-grading of the site,
3. Seeding of the entire denuded area,
4. Cleaning of the storm drain system, and
5. Reestablishing final grades and elevations for stormwater BMPs.
Prior to the release of the stormwater facility, and erosion and sediment
control performance sureties, a maintenance surety will be required.
This surety will be in an amount not to exceed twenty (20) percent of the
cost of construction and cover a period of three (3) years from the date of
acceptance by the Department.
Release of performance sureties will be performed as described in
Section 103.04 of this Manual.
SECTION 103 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND APPROVAL

103.01 Introduction

The installed storm sewer system shall not be accepted by the
Department until all requirements for inspection and testing established
by these regulations, and Section 561 of Indianapolis Code, are
completed.
Inspection of the stormwater drainage system and
associated land grading and erosion control measures shall be
completed by the Department as set forth herein to ensure conformance
with the approved site construction plan and supporting documents. Any
portion of the stormwater facility not passing the tests prescribed herein
shall be repaired or replaced to the extent required by the Department,
and retested.

103.02 General
Requirements

The Contractor and/or Owner shall provide written notice to the
Department of the planned commencement of construction forty-eight
(48) hours prior to such commencement. A Stop-Work-Order shall be
issued by the Department for all projects that are proceeding without the
required "Notification of Work."

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-19
January 2011 - FINAL

A pre-construction meeting to include a representative of the Department,
the Department's Observer, the Contractor, and the Land Owner or
Developer will be required. This meeting will be scheduled by the
Department after the issuance of a "Notification of Work."
Once construction begins, the contractor shall be responsible for
informing and/or notifying the Observer assigned of the following:
Daily work schedule including any changes in schedule.
Prior notification if work is to be performed on weekends and/or
holidays.
Date mandrel tests are to be performed.
Date "as-built" verification is to be performed.
The Department, upon request of the Contractor and/or Owner, will
schedule the Final Inspection.
All testing required shall be performed under the observation of the
Department's Observer. It shall be the Contractor's responsibility to
schedule the testing with the Observer and/or Department. Test results
obtained in the absence of the Department's Observer will not be
accepted.

103.03 Construction
Observation Services

Construction observation services, testing, and "record" drawings as set
forth in this manual shall be provided for those developments meeting the
following criteria:
1. All platted single- and double-family and subdivided and platted
commercial/industrial developments.
2. All commercial/industrial developments that will not be subdivided
and platted, which however, plan a disturbance of 5- acres or more of
land area.
3. All land alterations that involve installation of Class I and Class II
stormwater systems.
The storm drain system shall not be accepted by the Department until
all requirements for inspection and testing established by this Manual
are completed. Any portion of the stormwater facility not passing the
tests prescribed herein shall be repaired or replaced to the extent
required by the Department, and retested.
Prior to issuance of an approved stormwater permit and the
commencement of construction of a storm drain system, the Owner
shall make arrangements with the Department for construction
observation services to be provided.
The Department shall send a letter to the Owner stating the amount of
payment to be made to the Department for observation services to be
rendered by representatives of the Department. The amount provided
in the letter shall be seventy-five (75) percent of the total estimated
cost of the observation services based on an estimated project
completion time.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-20
January 2011 - FINAL

Upon payment of the seventy-five (75) percent cost, the Contractor
and/or Owner shall provide written notice to the Department of the
planned commencement of construction seventy-two (72) hours prior
to such commencement.
A pre-construction meeting to include a representative of the
Department, the Department's observer, the Contractor, and the Land
Owner or Developer will be scheduled by the Department which will
include a discussion and observation of the erosion and sediment
control measures. At that time, a "Notification of Work" will be issued
by the Department. A Stop-Work-Order shall be issued by the
Department for all projects that are proceeding without the required
"Notification of Work."

103.04 Drainage
Fees

The following schedule of fees is current as of May 1, 2007. Changes
to this fee schedule will be posted on the City‟s website.
Platting of residential subdivision:
1. Preliminary plat review:
2. Final plat review:

$395.00
$395.00 (up to 10 lots);
$55.00 (for each lot in
excess of 10)

Permit fees for Construction of Residential Structures:
1. New structure in approved subdivision
$65.00
2. New structure in subdivision platted prior
to 1980 or by metes and bounds
3. Addition to residential structure

$120.00
$50.00

Review Fees for Commercial and Subdivision Development:
1. Initial fee for plat and/or plan submittal
$200.00
with up to 3 hours of technical review
2. Hourly rate with private inspection (over
$180.00
5 acres):
3. Hourly rate without private inspection
$215.00
(under 5 acres):
4. Hourly rate for accelerated review with
$275.00
private inspection (over 5 acres):
Note: Accelerated reviews are available on a limited first come first
serve basis
Miscellaneous fees:
1. Initial fee for processing of encroachment
and other petitions (up to 3 hours):
2. Hourly fee for processing of
encroachment and other petitions (over 3
hours)
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

$395.00
$215.00

page 1-21
January 2011 - FINAL

3. Stormwater Connection permit

$120.00

4. Copying charges:
a. Specifications/standards manual

$55.00

b. Copy of ordinance

$10.00

c. Contour maps/plan sheets

$10.00

5. BMP Inspection Fees (per BMP):
a. Inspections for first 3 years, paid
lump sum in year 1
b. Annual BMP inspection after year 3

$705.00

per BMP

$235.00

per BMP

c. Additional inspections required due to
maintenance issues

$235.00

per hour

EXAMPLE BMP INSPECTION FEE CALCULATIONS
Example 1. XYZ Enterprises has a five-acre site with a wet pond for
treating the bulk of the site runoff and a perimeter sand filter on a
parking lot. The initial fee would then be two (2) times the $705 fee, or
$1410. Beginning in year 4 the annual inspection fee will be two (2)
times the $235 annual fee, or $470 per year.
Example 2. RST Enterprises adds a three quarter acre parking lot to
an existing facility. The runoff from the expansion includes six
bioretention medians in the parking lot for water quality that discharge
to a small detention pond to meet the City‟s detention requirement.
The bioretention medians represent a single water quality BMP. The
detention is required only for runoff volume control and is not a BMP.
The initial fee would then be one (1) times the $705 fee, or $705.
Beginning in year 4 the annual inspection fee will be one (1) times the
$235 annual fee, or $235 per year.

103.05 Testing

Once constructed, all storm sewer pipes and manholes shall be soil
tight. The Contractor shall repair to the satisfaction of the Department
all visible points of possible bedding and/or backfill infiltration into the
system. The method of repair shall be per the approval of the
Department. When necessary, the Contractor shall remove and
reconstruct as much of the work as is necessary to obtain a system
that passes the minimum tests prescribed herein.
1. Mandrel Tests for Plastic Pipes
All storm sewers using flexible pipe shall be tested for deflection by
means of a go/no-go mandrel gage or other methods as approved by
the Department.
The mandrel deflection test shall be as follows:

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-22
January 2011 - FINAL

1. Waiting Period
The mandrel deflection test shall be done no sooner than thirty
(30) days after final backfill has been placed.
2. Equipment
Mandrels shall be constructed with nine (9) or ten (10) arms.
Mandrels with fewer than nine (9) arms are not allowed.
The Length (L) shall be measured between points of contact
on the mandrel arm.
The Diameter (D) mandrel dimension shall carry a tolerance of
+ 0.01 inches.
3. Allowable Deflection
The allowable deflection shall be 5% based on the inside
diameter as determined on a case-by-case evaluation of the
pipe design.
The Contractor shall provide proving rings to check the
mandrel. The proving rings shall be clearly labeled with the
dimensions and ASTM Standard.
4. Testing Procedure
a. The mandrel shall be hand pulled through all sections of
the sewer lines.
b. Determination of Line Acceptance
If the mandrel can be hand pulled through the entire length
of the section tested, the section shall have passed the
test.
c.

Determination of Line Failure
If the mandrel cannot be hand pulled through the entire
length of the section tested, the section shall have failed
the test.
The Contractor shall be required to uncover, replace, or
repair any section of sewer not passing the mandrel test.

2. CMP and RCP Inspections
Forty-two (42) inch diameter and smaller reinforced concrete and
corrugated metal pipe may be required to be inspected through closed
circuit television viewing (CCTV) by the Department's representative
as described herein. In those instances where CCTV is a required
part of the stormwater permit approval, this televised viewing shall be
completed in conformance with these minimum guidelines.
All reinforced concrete and corrugated metal storm sewer pipes which
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-23
January 2011 - FINAL

are 36" diameter and smaller and are located within a public right-ofway or drainage easement shall be visually inspected by lamping in
the presence of the Construction Observer of other representative of
the Department.
These inspections shall be required in order to identify, as examples,
excessive sedimentation, joint failures, excessive deflections (CMP),
damaged coatings or pavings (CMP), structural defects,
misalignments, sags, or other system defects which have the potential
of affecting the hydraulic performance, durability, or structural integrity
of the line segment. Reference should be made to Chapter 400 of this
Manual for guidance on criteria sufficient to warrant rejection of the
installed storm sewer system.
Excessive deflection of CMP's shall be considered to exist under the
following conditions: variations from a straight centerline; elliptical
shape in a pipe intended to be round; dents or bends in the metal.
Metallic or bituminous coatings that have been scratched, scraped,
bruised, or otherwise broken shall be considered acceptable criteria for
rejection of the installed system.
Those storm sewer systems of 36" diameter and smaller which are
found through lamping to possess greater than 3 defects noted per line
segment during the above referenced visual inspection shall have that
individual line segment further inspected by closed circuit television
inspection between manholes as follows:
1. A camera equipped with remote control devices to adjust the
light intensity and one thousand (1,000) lineal feet of cable
shall be provided. The camera shall be able to transmit a
continuous image to the television monitor as it is being pulled
through the pipe. The image shall be clear enough to enable
the Department to easily evaluate the interior condition of the
pipe. The camera should have a digital display for lineal
footage and project number and an audio voice-over shall be
made during the inspection identifying any problems.
2. The pipe shall be thoroughly cleaned before the camera is
installed and televising is commenced. Cleaning of the pipe
shall be the responsibility of the Owner.
3. The VHS tape of the entire storm sewer line and reproduction
map indicating the pipe segment numbers of all the pipe that
has been televised shall be submitted to the Department for
review and placement in their permanent file.
Any pipe and/or joint found to be defective as a result of the televised
viewing shall be required to be repaired or replaced to the satisfaction
and approval of the Department. A re-televising of that portion of the
storm sewer line identified as needing repair or replacement shall be
required.
All RCP and CMP storm sewer pipes and open culverts greater than
36" in diameter and located within a public right-of-way or drainage
easement shall be visually surveyed along their entire length in the
presence of the Construction Observer or other representative of the
Department.
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-24
January 2011 - FINAL

These inspections shall be required in order to identify, as examples,
excessive sedimentation, joint failures, excessive deflections (CMP),
damaged coatings or pavings (CMP), structural defects,
misalignments, sags, or other system defects which have the potential
of affecting the hydraulic performance, durability, or structural integrity
of the line segment. Reference should be made to Chapter 400 of this
Manual for guidance on criteria sufficient to warrant rejection of the
installed storm sewer system.
Excessive deflection of CMPs shall be considered to exist under the
following conditions: variations from a straight centerline; elliptical
shape in a pipe intended to be round; dents or bends in the metal.
Metallic or bituminous coatings that have been scratched, scraped,
bruised, or otherwise broken shall be considered acceptable criteria for
rejection of the installed system.
Any pipe and/or joint found to be defective as a result of the televised
viewing shall be required to be repaired or replaced to the satisfaction
and approval of the Department. A re-televising of that portion of the
storm sewer line identified as needing repair or replacement shall be
required.
3. Manhole and Box Inlet Inspection
Each manhole and/or box inlet structure within all storm sewer line
segments shall be visually inspected by a representative of the
Department for excessive leakage, backfill infiltration, or improper
workmanship and materials. Manholes or box inlet structures which
fail to meet minimum construction standards shall be repaired or, if
necessary, replaced, and re-inspected.

103.06 Release of
Sureties

Notice of the scheduled date for completion of construction shall be
provided to the Department at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to its
planned completion. The Contractor or Owner will schedule the final
inspection with the Department's observer. After successful completion
of the final inspection, the storm drain and site grading performance
sureties may be released after submittal and approval by the Department
of the following information:
1. "Record" drawings prepared under the supervision of and certified by
a Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor registered in the State of
Indiana.
2. For subdivided and platted or developments larger than five (5)
acres, a copy of the storm drain maintenance bond in a form
approved by the Department.
3. A "Certificate of Completion and Compliance" from the Department's
Observer certifying that construction observed has been performed
and completed in conformity with all requirements of Section 561 241 of Indianapolis City Code and this Manual. The certificate shall
be as presented on page A1-13.
For platted single- and double-family developments, the performance
surety for installation of required erosion and sediment control measures

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-25
January 2011 - FINAL

may be released only after construction has been completed on eightyone (81) percent or more of all single- or double-family homes proposed
within each individual section of the development.

103.07 Record
Drawings

As part of the final acceptance process, record drawings of the
stormwater facilities must be submitted to the Department, as set forth
herein, for the following types of developments:
all platted subdivisions
industrial and commercial sites one acre and larger
all public infrastructure
Record drawings shall be certified by a Professional Engineer or Land
Surveyor registered in the State of Indiana, and provide the following
information:
1. Building pad elevations.
2. Structure inverts, pipe inverts, top-of-casting's, and the flowline of
rear and/or side yard swales at fifty (50) foot intervals or at lot
lines.
3. Horizontal alignment of storm drain pipes, culverts, BMPs, streets,
and storm drain structures, to a minimum accuracy of +/- two (2)
feet. All BMPs will be located by Indiana State Plane Coordinates.
4. The as-built survey of all detention / retention facilities as well as
as-built profile of all drainage conveyances (ditches, swales, etc).
5. The horizontal location and/or bank cross sections for all
detention/retention facilities or other information sufficient to verify
that the constructed detention/retention facility provides the
required minimum runoff storage volume.
6. A tag reference to the operations and maintenance manual as
required for stormwater structures will be included.
Record drawings will be submitted as both digital and either blueline
copies or original mylars. The digital submittal will be in a format
compatible with the Indianapolis Mapping and Geographical
Infrastructure System (IMAGIS) database.

103.08 Enforcement
of Standards

Failure to comply with those minimum guidelines set forth by this
Manual may necessitate one or more of the following actions to be
taken by the Director:
1. Posting of a Stop-Work-Order on the project.
2. The procurement of performance sureties.
3. A denial of further stormwater permits for the subject project in
noncompliance with this Manual.
4. Necessary legal action by the Department to effect the

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-26
January 2011 - FINAL

implementation of the approved plan or restoration of the site.

SECTION 104 OTHER REQUIREMENTS

104.01 Floodplain
Management

Floodplain management shall be in accordance with Chapter 735,
Ordinance Establishing Flood Control Zoning Districts (Chapter 735).
The City of Indianapolis has adopted floodplain regulations through the
Flood Control District Zoning Ordinance of Marion County, Indiana. The
most current effective Flood Control District Zoning Ordinance is on the
IndyGov web-site and referenced from the Stormwater Standards
section. In addition, all levees constructed will be required to be
designed and operated by the Owner in accordance with FEMA
requirements at the time it is designed.
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this Manual or the provisions
contained in Chapter 735, the City of Indianapolis may, on a case by
case basis, place additional requirements on developments and
redevelopments in areas located in dam failure inundation zones, levee
failure residual risk areas, or areas shown as protected by dams,
levees, or other flood control facilities.

104.02 Stormwater
Quality

The City of Indianapolis and Marion County are subject to the
requirements of a stormwater discharge control permit that has been
issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM) under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES). Under this permit the City is required to establish regulations,
standards, and policies that address the water quality impacts of
stormwater runoff from redeveloping areas and areas of new
development. The policies set forth in this section are intended to meet
the requirements that the City address pollutants of concern in local
stormwater runoff and comply with narrative standards in the permit.
The pollutants of concern that are to be addressed in stormwater runoff
from newly developing and redeveloping areas include:
1

Totals suspended solids (TSS). TSS is a problem pollutant in
stormwater runoff nationally, regionally, and in the City of
Indianapolis. In 2001 the City adopted a policy that the control of
stormwater runoff quality countywide will be based upon the
management of TSS. The target TSS removal rate is 80% on an
average annual basis. All best management practices (BMPs)
approved for use in the City of Indianapolis will be capable of
meeting or exceeding the 80% TSS removal target whether the
control be a single structure or a series of controls.
Floatables. The narrative standards in Section I.B.3 of the City‟s
NPDES Stormwater Permit (No. INS040001) state that certain
categories of floatables, or floating debris are not permitted in
stormwater discharges.
The policy for floatable control in
Indianapolis is that the drainage from all areas of new development
and redevelopment will be designed to so as to capture and retain
floating material. Individual components of the stormwater control
1

For the purposes of this requirement, TSS are defined as particles that will pass through a 125 micron screen.
Larger particles are considered to be part of the total solids load of the stormwater runoff.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-27
January 2011 - FINAL

system do not have to comply with this policy, but the final
discharge from the development site must.
The water quality management program of the City of Indianapolis is
performance-based. In a performance-based program it is essential
that any approved BMP be properly maintained in order to insure that
the BMP perform as designed. An operations and maintenance plan for
any approved structure will be required (see Section 102.06). As will be
stated in the operation and maintenance manual, maintenance will be
the responsibility of the property / BMP owner. The city encourages the
use of high-efficiency, low maintenance BMPs that have the potential for
removal of multiple stormwater pollutants.
For the purposes of redevelopment of lots, the gross built upon density,
or percent imperviousness, will be the basis for design computations of
runoff volume, peak, and pollutant wash-off load for water quality
computations.
For the purposes of all projects, including commercial, industrial,
residential, transportation, recreation, etc., if the cumulative disturbed
area is less than ½ acre, the development will be exempt from
requirements for on-site BMPs. The cumulative total disturbed area will
be evaluated based on City records of permit activity from October 1,
2001. However, the City has the discretion to exempt redevelopment
activities disturbing up to 5% more area.
Plans approved and permitted prior to the effective date of these
policies will not be required to comply with this policy unless
construction has not commenced within 365 days after the effective
date of this policy. Each phase of a multi-phased project is considered
part of a single project for the purposes of complying with this policy.
Master plan approval does not constitute plan approval.
BMPs defined in Chapter 700 as being capable of meeting the specified
performance criteria for pollutant removal will be acceptable if designed
to the standard specifications in Chapter 700.
Alternative BMPs can be approved but will require that all provided
computations be professionally certified, and that literature references of
the historical performance of the BMP for TSS removal be provided to
the Department of Metropolitan Development for review.
Manufactured BMPs, such as catch basin inserts that don‟t meet the
requirements outlined in Chapter 700, must be professionally certified
and approved by the New Product Committee prior to the approval for
use.
This policy has been adopted as the basis of the county‟s stormwater
quality management program for all areas of the county except within
the city limits of Beech Grove, Lawrence, Southport and Speedway.
The effective date of this policy is October 1, 2001.

104.03 Redevelopment
Guidelines

Redevelopment of downtown properties is a significant issue for
stormwater management and combined sewer programs. In many, if not
most instances these areas are characterized by extensive

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-28
January 2011 - FINAL

imperviousness, undersized stormwater infrastructure, and a growing
demand to redevelop the space.
In Indianapolis, redevelopment
pressures exist both in the downtown area and in older suburban
residential and commercial areas. The intense development of the
combined sewer service area has resulted in large volumes of
stormwater runoff, major system capacity issues, and frequent overflows
of the combined sewer system into local waterways. The City is in the
process of dealing with these capacity issues and the related water
quality concerns in the implementation of a long term plan to control
combined sewer overflows. Reduction of runoff from redeveloping areas
is a key feature of this program.
When properties are redeveloped they are subject to the same policies
and design standards as are applied to new development projects;
including stormwater permitting, detention, sediment and erosion control,
and water quality management requirements. The complicating factor for
many redevelopment projects is the lack of available land on which to
develop detention and water quality control facilities. The following
paragraphs are intended to provide some guidance on how
redevelopment projects can be implemented while still meeting the
stormwater design standards.
1. Minimize imperviousness. The best way to minimize the impact of
stormwater design regulations on a development is to minimize the
impact the development has on stormwater runoff. By building up
(multi-story development) rather than out (sprawling one-story
development) green space can be incorporated into the site plan
resulting in reduced stormwater infrastructure needs, costs, and
eventually user fees. The use of green development techniques, as
discussed in Section 104.04, can also result in lower infrastructure
costs and reduced stormwater user fees.
2. Go to the rooftop. If the project has issues that would make ground
level or below ground stormwater management infrastructure
impractical it might be possible to address storage and/or water
quality issues by looking at the rooftops for detention storage and/or
water quality control. Rooftop detention of stormwater is fairly
common in downtown areas of major cities around the world,
particularly cities that deal with combined sewer capacity issues such
as those in Indianapolis. Rooftop detention can be employed in
conjunction with catch basin inserts or ground level stormwater
quality units to meet the City‟s water quality standards. Another
growing alternative is the concept of green roofs. The green roof
concept provides detention of stormwater runoff, reduces runoff by
vegetative interception and evapotranspiration, and provides the
added benefit of reducing energy consumption for heating and
cooling the building.
3. Go underground. If reduced imperviousness, rooftop alternatives,
and green design are not practical, the on-site stormwater
management program may be provided below ground. There are
numerous storage system solutions for use under parking lots that
can provide the detention capacity control and storage volume
needed for most projects. These solutions can be integrated with
catch basin inserts and/or other in-ground stormwater quality units to
also meet the water quality control requirements of the City.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-29
January 2011 - FINAL

104.04 Green
Development Incentives

The goal of stormwater management requirements for areas of new
development and significant redevelopment is to reduce the impact of
post-construction stormwater runoff on the local drainage area and
watershed. This can be achieved by (1) maximizing the use of site
design and nonstructural methods to reduce the generation of runoff and
pollutants; (2) managing and treating stormwater runoff though the use of
structural stormwater controls; and (3) implementing pollution prevention
practices to limit potential stormwater contaminants. One method of
reducing the impact of new development and redevelopment on both
stormwater runoff quality and quantity is the concept of low impact or
green development techniques.
Traditionally, the development of a property results in the conversion of
pervious areas into impervious surfaces. The pre-development pervious
areas, naturally vegetated areas that allow rainwater to infiltrate into the
ground to replenish groundwater resources and nourish plants. The post
development impervious areas retard or prohibit the infiltration of
rainwater, thus creating increased stormwater runoff peaks and volumes
and creating water quality problems. In many cases the pervious
surfaces that remain after development have lower permeability than in
their undisturbed state and quickly become saturated by the increased
runoff, resulting in increased runoff from these areas during intense
rainfall.
Green development techniques lessen the impact of development and
redevelopment on downstream drainage area by reducing the amount of
impervious surface. Although some of the “green” options do not exactly
recreate natural conditions, they approximate those conditions to the
extent that they lower runoff curve numbers and/or lengthen times of
concentration. The net result is that less impervious surface means
lower runoff peak flows, lower runoff volumes, and lower pollutant export,
all of which can mean lower development costs. For the postconstruction property owner the reduced imperviousness may mean
lower stormwater user fees, and in the case of green roofs reduced
heating/cooling costs.
Examples of the types of features that might be part of a green design
approach include:
Green roofs
Roof gardens
Pervious pavement
Tree planting
Vegetated swales
Grassy swales
Street swales
Vegetated filter strips
Biofiltration
Vegetated infiltration basins
Sand filters
Wet, extended wet, and dry detention ponds
Stormwater wetlands
Manufactured treatment technologies
Structural detention facilities
Rainwater harvesting

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-30
January 2011 - FINAL

Drywells
For more information on the incentives of green development, including
example computations on infrastructure cost savings, please refer to the
City of Indianapolis website, www.indygov.org and search for
“stormwater design and construction specifications manual.” The green
development incentive guidelines will be published with the design
manual.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 1-31
January 2011 - FINAL



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Appendix 3
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District (MMSD)
Quicksheet 1.2

LID QuickSheet 1.2
A Spreadsheet for Determining the Capacity of LID Features
to Meet MMSD Chapter 13 Requirements

USER MANUAL

May 6, 2005

The Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District

[This page intentionally left blank.]

Acknowledgments
Steering Team for the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District
Low Impact Development Chapter 13 Guidance Project
Susan Beaumier
Martha Brown
Bob Brownell
Jeff Chase
Mike Hahn
Bill Hoppe
Debra Jensen
David Kendziorski
Carolyn Leaman
Jim Leedom
Scott Mathie
Mark Mittag
Jeff Nettesheim
Mark Nicolini
Eric Nitschke
Dave Olsen
Robert Rehm

Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
City of Milwaukee Department of City Development
Bielinski Development
City of Brookfield
Southeastern Wisconsin Regional Planning Commission
City of Mequon
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District
StormTech
City of Milwaukee Department of City Development
Sigma Development
Metropolitan Builders Association
CH2M-Hill
Village of Menomonee Falls
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District
City of New Berlin
Davidson Engineering
City of Milwaukee Department of Public Works

Spreadsheet Development
Version 1.0 of the LID Quicksheet and its documentation were developed by Paul Koch,
Ph.D., P.E., at The Low Impact Development Center, under the general supervision of
Neil Weinstein, P.E. Technical and editorial review was provided by Laura Kletti, P.E., at
CDM, under the general supervision of Dan Lau, P.E.
Version 1.2 of the LID Quicksheet and its documentation were produced by Paul Koch,
Ph.D., P.E., at The KEVRIC Company, under the general supervision of David Allen.
The Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District
260 West Seeboth Street
Milwaukee, WI 53204
(414) 272.5100
www.mmsd.com

KEVRIC Company, Inc.
8484 Georgia Ave., Suite 550
Silver Spring, MD 20910
(301) 588.6000
www.kevric.com

The Low Impact Development Center
5010 Sunnyside Ave., Suite 200
Beltsville, MD 20705
(301) 982.5559
www.lowimpactdevelopment.org

CDM
330 East Kilbourn Avenue, Suite 1219
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 291.5100
www.cdm.com

iii

Version History
1.0

Draft version released for Steering Team Review.

1.2

Final version.

iv

Table of Contents
1. Introduction...................................................................................................................1
2. General Guidelines........................................................................................................2
3. Comparison of Conventional and LID Curve Number Calculations............................3
4. Designing with the Spreadsheet....................................................................................6
5. Site Summary..............................................................................................................10
6. URR Summary............................................................................................................16
7. Exporting the LID Hydrograph...................................................................................17
8. References...................................................................................................................18
Appendix A. Five Methods of Accounting for the Effect of Distributed Retention ....19
Appendix B. Summary of Spreadsheet Contents .........................................................27
Appendix C. Curve Numbers and Subsurface Storage for Porous Pavement and
Permeable Pavers ....................................................................................28
Appendix D. Runoff Storage Capacity of Vegetated Roofs.........................................30

Figures
1. Residential LID Case Study Site Plan ........................................................................4
2. Conventional Site Example.........................................................................................5
3. LID Site Example .......................................................................................................5
4a. First page of the main spreadsheet interface...............................................................8
4b. Second page of the spreadsheet interface ...................................................................9
5. Moisture retention parameters associated with USDA soil texture classes..............14
6. Example of splitting flow at outlet............................................................................17

v

Tables
1. Area-Weighted CN Calculation for Conventional Design ...........................................6
2. Area-Weighted CN Calculation for LID Design ..........................................................6

vi

LID QuickSheet 1.2
A Spreadsheet for Determining the Capacity of LID Features
to Meet MMSD Chapter 13 Requirements
USER MANUAL

1. Introduction
MMSD Chapter 13 permits governmental units to require analyses of individual site
developments to demonstrate that those developments meet one of two technical requirements
for managing runoff. The requirements to be met for the site are:
1. Peak flow control that meets Unit Release Rate (URR) targets. Those targets are 0.15 cfs/acre
for the 2-year return period storm and 0.50 cfs/acre for the 100-year return period storm.
2. Volume control that meets the Volumetric Design Procedure (VDP) target. The VDP requires
that the amount of runoff that is discharged from the developed site during a critical time period
does not exceed the amount generated under predevelopment conditions. The critical time
period has been predetermined for different watersheds, as described in the MMSD Surface
Water and Storm Water Rules (MMSD 2002).
This spreadsheet estimates the capacity of Low Impact Development (LID) design strategies to
help meet the URR requirements and thereby reduce or eliminate the need for conventional
detention storage to meet the Chapter 13 requirements. LID design involves:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Minimizing the capacity of the land surface to generate runoff.
Slowing down and dispersing the runoff.
Collecting and retaining the runoff in small, distributed storage volumes.
Infiltrating the runoff where possible.

To determine the collective effect of these strategies on the hydrology of a site, the spreadsheet
incorporates a subset of the analytic methods described in Technical Release 55 (TR-55), Urban
Hydrology for Small Watersheds (Soil Conservation Service, 1986)1 and Technical Release 20
(TR-20), Computer Program for Project Formulation Hydrology (Soil Conservation Service,
1983). The spreadsheet is intended to be used in conjunction with these reference documents.
Both of these methods are based on the procedures for hydrologic analysis that are presented in
the National Engineering Handbook, Section 4 (Soil Conservation Service, 1985). Additionally,
various LID design features are described in Memorandum: Evaluation of Stormwater Reduction
Practices (MMSD 2003).
1

Note: Since the publication of TR-55 and TR-20, the Soil Conservation Service (SCS) has been renamed the
National Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). The abbreviations SCS and NRCS are used within this
document interchangeably.

1

Through the use of curve number (CN) and time of concentration (Tc) parameters, the
procedures found in TR-55 and TR-20 can already take into account the manner in which LID
influences the rate of runoff generation and the rate at which the runoff is conveyed across a site.
Relative to the CN value for conventional site design, for example, the CN value might be
decreased for an LID design because of reductions in the amount of impervious area. Likewise,
the Tc value for an LID design might be increased on account of the greater use of vegetated
swales rather than channelized stormwater conveyance systems.
Beyond the Tc and CN effects, however, LID design will also take advantage of opportunities for
providing distributed retention storage. Retention may be provided, for example, in bioretention
cells, in the gravel beds underlying permeable pavements, or on vegetated roofs. To directly
account for the effect of distributed retention storage in a manner not currently available in
TR-55 or TR-20, this spreadsheet has incorporated an adaptation of the TR-20 unit hydrograph
calculations in a manner that treats the site retention volume as a uniform depth of storage across
the drainage area.

2. General Guidelines
This spreadsheet requires the input of standard NRCS unit hydrograph parameters and additional
information about the runoff storage capacity of specific LID features. These guidelines assume
that the user already has a familiarity with the NRCS runoff calculation procedures for
developing a composite CN value as an area-weighted average and for determining Tc values.
Please refer to TR-55 and TR-20 for a detailed description of those procedures.
2.1. Terminology
The term retention in this document refers to the capture of runoff during a storm event so that it
is not discharged from the site as surface flow, but is retained on site and subsequently
infiltrated, evaporated, absorbed by vegetation, or withdrawn for consumptive use. Retention is
carefully distinguished here from detention, which refers to runoff that is only temporarily
stored, as in a detention pond, before it is released from the site.
The term rain garden is here used synonymously with the term bioretention cell. A rain garden
is a landscaped depression that is designed to capture and infiltrate runoff.
2.2. Technical Issues
The spreadsheet sums the total retention storage volume provided on site and then obtains an
average storage depth by dividing the total volume by the drainage area. Only after the runoff
depth exceeds the storage depth during a design storm is a component of the runoff hydrograph
generated. The rationale for adapting the NRCS unit hydrograph calculations in this manner is
presented in Appendix A.
Care should be taken in the design and analysis of a site to ensure that the retention volumes
entered into the spreadsheet are actually filled during the storm event. It is conceivable that the
amount of runoff going into a rain garden, for example, will not actually fill the storage volume

2

available. In such a situation, the runoff volume, rather than the full capacity of the rain garden,
will represent the amount of water that does not flow to the drainage area outlet.
The analysis of a site will require subdividing it into small drainage subareas and comparing the
volume of runoff flowing into each retention feature with the capacity of that feature. The lesser
of the runoff volume and the storage capacity should be aggregated with the rest of the on-site
retention for input into the hydrograph calculations.
Because the effect of the storage depth is evaluated as if it is uniform across the site, it is left to
the analyst and reviewer to determine whether this assumption is appropriate for a particular site
design. The more uniform the distribution of retention is, the more appropriate the assumption.
Figure 1 is an example of a residential area that makes considerable use of on-lot space for
retention storage (as indicated by the small irregular shapes on the site). Although the placement
of retention is not perfectly uniform, the wide distribution suggests that treating the storage depth
as uniform may not be unreasonable for this design.
While LID features such as rain gardens and permeable pavements may be designed with
underdrains, the calculations provided in the Quicksheet assume that no LID feature has an
underdrain flow rate that contributes significantly to the peak of the runoff hydrograph. If the
rate does become significant, then an additional analysis may be advisable to count that rate as
being added to the hydrograph peak, or to route the runoff hydrograph through the device.
As with conventional approaches to stormwater management, some engineering judgment will
be required to ensure that the parameter values selected in practice represent actual site
conditions. Responsible design and analysis using this tool will seek to fully account for the
capacity of LID features to reduce runoff. It is equally important, however, to avoid
overestimating their capacity in a manner that would pose an increased risk of flooding and
erosion downstream of the modeled drainage area.

3. Comparison of Conventional and LID Curve Number Calculations
Figures 2 and 3 show conventional and LID site plans for a 6.5-acre residential townhouse
development. Tables 1 and 2 show the weighted curve number calculations for each site. The
reduction in the curve number was achieved primarily by increasing the amount of wooded area.
Additionally, the impervious area was somewhat reduced in the LID design by decreasing the
road width.
According to the standard NRCS runoff depth calculation, for a 2.57-inch storm the lower curve
number will reduce the depth of runoff from 0.9 to 0.6 inches. When the bioretention areas that
have an average ponding depth of 6 inches and a subsurface storage capacity of 3 inches, the LID
spreadsheet indicates that only 2.2% of the site area is needed to reduce the peak flow to a target
level of 0.15 cfs/acre. Without the reduction in curve number, approximately 5.0% of the area
would be needed.

3

For sites with no more than 30% impervious area, additional reductions in the curve number can
be gained by disconnecting the impervious coverage. This encourages infiltration by preventing
runoff from flowing continuously across hard surfaces from the point of runoff generation to the
drainage area outlet.

Figure 1. Residential LID Case Study Site Plan
Source: Prince George’s County, MD, 1997

4

Figure 2. Conventional Site Example

Figure 3. LID Site Example

5

Hydrologic
Soils Group
B
B
B

Cover Description
Lawn (fair condition)
Woods, Fair
Impervious

CN (Table
2-2 TR-55)
69
60
98

Area
(Acres)
3.2
0.7
2.6
Sum of Products
÷ Drainage Area
Weighted CN

Product of CN
x Area
220.8
42.0
254.8
517.6
6.5
80

Table 1. Area-Weighted CN Calculation for Conventional Design

Hydrologic
Soils Group
B
B
B

Cover Description
Lawn (good condition)
Woods, Fair
Impervious

CN (Table
Area
2-2 TR-55)
(Acres)
61
1.8
60
2.5
98
2.2
Sum of Products
÷ Drainage Area
Weighted CN

Product of CN
x Area
109.8
150.0
215.6
475.4
6.5
73

Table 2. Area-Weighted CN Calculation for LID Design

4. Designing with the Spreadsheet
4.a. How the Spreadsheet is Organized
Within the spreadsheet file, five different sheets are available to the user by clicking on tabs at
the bottom of the page. The portions of the spreadsheet available for user input and output are as
follows:
•
•
•
•
•

ReadMe
MainPage
SubareaCheck
RainDistribution
OutputHydrograph

Basic information about the use and function of the spreadsheet.
The main page used for the input and output (Figures 4a and 4b).
Justifies use of retention volumes entered into MainPage.
Allows the use of different temporal rainfall distributions.
Provides LID hydrograph values for export.

4.b. Stepwise Overview of LID Site Design
Here is a brief overview of how to proceed using information available about your site:

6

1. For the proposed site design, determine drainage area divides, land use, and flow paths.
2. For comparison purposes, estimate the CN and Tc values assuming that no LID features
are used on the site.
3. Enter the CN and Tc values into the spreadsheet to estimate a detention pond volume
when no LID features are used.
4. Minimize the overall CN and maximize the Tc values for your LID site design, and enter
those values into the spreadsheet.
5. Select the LID features that are feasible for the proposed site, considering the options
described in Memorandum: Evaluation of Stormwater Reduction Practices.
6. Enter into the spreadsheet realistic values for the amount of retention storage that could
be provided on site using the selected LID features at identified locations, and observe
the calculated reductions in the peak flow runoff rate and detention pond size.
7. Add no more storage when the desired level of reduction in the peak flow value or the
detention pond size is achieved, or if no additional storage will be provided due to site
constraints.
8. Compare the volume of runoff flowing into each feature with the actual retention volume
of that feature, and check to ensure that the volume considered in the calculations is the
lesser of the two. The comparisons can be summarized in the sheet SubareaCheck.
9. Check the final site plan against spreadsheet input and finalize the two pages of
MainPage as part of the Chapter 13 submittal.
10. If a detention pond needs to be sized, use the LID hydrograph values provided in the
sheet OutputHydrograph.
Screenshots of the main page of the user interface are shown on the next two pages. Following
the screenshots are line-by-line instructions for providing the input and interpreting the output of
the spreadsheet.

7

LID QuickSheet 1.1
SITE SUMMARY

Enter data into the shaded boxes only.

Line PRECIPITATION and DRAINAGE AREA
1a
100 years
Return period for this storm event.
1b
NRCS Type II
Rainfall distribution. See RainDistribution sheet to change.
P
2a
5.88 inches
Total precipitation.
A
100.0 acres
Drainage area.
2b
CN minimum
2c
25
CNs must be greater than this value to generate runoff.

3a
3b

NoLID DESIGN
CN
Tc

85
30

Area-weighted average for the NoLID site design.
Cannot be less than 5 minutes.
minutes

LID DESIGN
4a

4b
4c
4d
4e
4f
4g

CN

Standard CN Determination
78 Area-weighted average for the LID site.

Optional CN Determination
If option not used, enter zeroes in Lines 4b-4d.
70 Composite CNp for pervious areas alone.
Pimp
30% Actual percent impervious.
0.2 Decimal <= 1.0. Ratio of unconnected impervious area to total impervious area.
(Enter "0" as the ratio if total impervious area is greater than 30% of site.)
CN result:
77 (The "CNc" in TR-55 Appendix F)
CNp

Selected CN
Tc

77
45

LID Retention Features

5a
5b
5c
5d

Rain Garden Capacity
6.0
16.0
0.2
9.2

Enter the value from Line 4a or Line 4e.
Cannot be less than 5 minutes.
minutes
For individual features, compare the contributing runoff with the capacity,
and take the lesser of the two. Summarize on SubareaCheck sheet.
Average ponding depth.
Average soil mix depth available for retention (24 inches or less).
Volume
Design
Average fillable porosity.
Storage per unit area.
acregallons
feet
(thousand)
of drainage area used for rain gardens.
3.07
999
sq.ft.
(average of top and bottom areas)

inches
inches
(unitless)
inches

5e
5f

Rain Garden
Coverage

4.0%
174240

6a
6b

Rain
Barrels

55.0
100

gallons

7a
7b
7c

Green Roofs

3.0
0.50
10000

inches

8

Cisterns

9a
9b
10

Capacity of each rain barrel.
Number of rain barrels.

0.02

6

sq.ft.

Maximum Water Capacity (MWC).
Multiplier between 0.33 and 0.67.
Area.

0.03

9

1000

cu.ft.

Sum of all cistern volumes.

0.02

7

Permeable
Pavement

5.0
1600

inches
sq.ft.

Storage depth, or capacity per unit area.
Paved area.

0.02

5

Other

80000

cu.ft.

Additional storage not listed above.

1.84

598

4.99

1625

Total

Figure 4a. First page of the main spreadsheet interface (MainPage tab)

8

LID QuickSheet 1.1
URR SUMMARY

Enter data into the shaded boxes only.

Line Unit Release Rate Target
20
0.50 cfs/acre

See User Manual to select value.

Site Runoff
21a
21b
22a
22b

Depth inches
Volume
ac-ft
Peak
cfs
Peak/area cfs/acre

NoLID
4.19
34.91
352.5
3.52

LID
2.78
23.13
184.1
1.84

Reduction
34%
48%

Conventional Detention Needed to Meet Peak Flow Target
NoLID
LID
Reduction
23a
1.98
1.10
44%
Depth inches
16.49
9.18
23b
Volume
ac-ft
LID Split Flow Option. If discharge above target rate is directed into
retention at outlet, this retention volume can replace detention pond volume:
24a
0.79 (Compare to Line 23a, LID column)
Depth inches
6.59 (Compare to Line 23b, LID column)
24b
Volume
ac-ft

25 Runoff Hydrographs for URR Analysis

URR Target

NoLID

LID

Detention

4.0
3.5
q (cfs/acre)

3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

t (hours)

Input by:

Date:

Checked by:

Date:

Figure 4b. Second page of main spreadsheet interface (Mainpage tab)

9

5. Site Summary
The Site Summary page (Figure 4a) is for the user to provide input values for the URR
evaluation.
5.1. Precipitation and Drainage Area
1a. Enter the return period associated with the precipitation depth and peak target rate given.
Both the 2-year and 100-year 24-hour storm events should be evaluated.
1b. This line shows the name of the design storm distribution that has been entered on the
RainDistribution sheet.
2a. Input the rainfall depth designated by the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional Planning
Commission (SEWRPC) for the 2-year and 100-year 24-hour storm events. For the 2-year
event, the rainfall depth is 2.57 inches, and for the 100-year event, the rainfall depth is 5.88
inches.
2b. Input the drainage area. If the site as a whole does not have uniform land cover and soil
types, consider dividing it into separate drainage areas and using the spreadsheet multiple
times.
2c. This output is for user information as CN values are input in the cells below.
5.2. NoLID Design
These values are used to generate a runoff hydrograph and estimate the detention pond volume if
no LID strategies are implemented on the site. In Figure 4a, for example, the “No LID” CN
value of 83 was taken from Table 2-2a of TR-55 as the value associated with 1/4-acre lots on
hydrologic soil group C.
Because the LID design does not depend on these numbers, for practical reasons a detailed
evaluation of the NoLID design may not be necessary. The calculations for the NoLID design
are provided simply for comparison with the LID design.
3a. Enter the curve number for the NoLID design.
3b. Enter the time of concentration for the NoLID design.

10

5.3. LID Design
Taking Into Account the Preservation of Natural Features
The preservation of natural features on a site often helps to control runoff. Wellestablished naturally wooded areas or prairie are often characterized by thick
vegetation and high levels of organic matter in the soil. These conditions promote
rainfall interception and runoff infiltration. Where these features are preserved, a
CN value can be selected from Table 2-2 of TR-55 to reflect the continued
influence of these natural features on the generation of runoff from a site.
Additionally, sheet flow and shallow concentrated flow that is conveyed through
naturally vegetated areas flows more slowly than runoff that travels across
grassed lawns (for example). Consequently, the preservation of natural features
can be taken into account for both the Tc and CN values selected for the site.

5.3.1. Standard CN Determination
4a. Enter an area-weighted average CN value. This CN value should include the vegetative
cover for bioretention areas assuming that bioretention soils are the same as the surrounding
soils. The subsurface porosity of bioretention cells is accounted for in Line 5c.
Accounting for Permeable Pavements in the Standard CN Determination
Use one of the following sub-options, but not both.
Sub-Option A. Incorporate permeable pavement CN into the Line 4a value as part
of the weighted average for the entire site. See Appendix C for a brief
discussion of alternative values.
Sub-Option B. Treat the pavement as an impervious area when calculating the
input for Line 4a but incorporate a determination of the total storage depth in
Line 9a.

5.3.2. Optional CN Determination
For urban and residential districts, the CN values published in Table 2-2a of TR-55 are based on
sites that have the following characteristics:
(a) The percentage of impervious area shown in the table.
(b) The connection of impervious areas directly to the drainage system.
(c) Grass as the primary pervious ground cover.
An LID strategy typically involves reducing and disconnecting impervious areas, and increasing
the density of vegetative cover using trees or native plants, for example. Because these methods
help to reduce runoff, it is highly desirable to recalculate a composite curve number to fully

11

account for their effects. Lines 4b through 4e allow for a quick estimate of the effect of reducing
and disconnecting the impervious area, assuming that the CN value for the pervious area does
not change significantly. This approach is based on TR-55 p. 2-9 and TR-55 Appendix F.
In the example input shown in Figure 4a, the LID CN is based on a vegetative land cover of
woods in good condition over hydrologic soil group C (CN=70). The impervious area has been
reduced from an average of 38% for the No LID condition (TR-55 Table 2-2a) down to 30%
here, and a portion of that is disconnected. This combination of factors results in a lower overall
curve number of 77.
4b. The value entered should be the area-weighted average of the curve numbers associated with
the different land covers (native plants, woods, grass, etc.) and should not include any
impervious area or vegetated roof area. This CN value should include the vegetative cover
for bioretention areas assuming that bioretention soils are the same as the surrounding soils.
The subsurface porosity of bioretention cells is accounted for in Line 5c.
Accounting for Permeable Pavements in the Optional CN Determination
Use one of the following sub-options, but not both.
Sub-option C. Incorporate permeable pavement into the pervious CN value
calculated in Line 4b and do not treat it as part of the impervious area in Line
3a. See Appendix C for a brief discussion of CN values for permeable
pavement.
Sub-option D. Do not incorporate a permeable pavement CN into line 4b. Instead
treat the pavement as an impervious area in Line 4b but incorporate a
determination of the total storage depth in Line 9a.
4c. Use an actual impervious area. Vegetated roofs should be treated as impervious here.
Vegetated roof retention is specifically accounted for in Lines 7a-7b.
4d. Treat as disconnected, for example: Roof downspouts that are not directly connected to the
drain system, pavement area that conveys runoff into grassed swales rather than down a curb
and gutter system. Conventional pavement or other impervious area that conveys runoff onto
permeable pavement may be considered disconnected.
4e. This amount is computed automatically, and the letters “N/A” appear if zeroes are entered in
Lines 4b and 4c.
4f. This input value must be entered manually and will be identical to the value shown in line 4a
or 4e. It is the LID CN value used for the hydrograph calculations.
4g. This is the time of concentration for the LID design. All other conditions being equal, an
increase in the Tc will result in a reduction in the peak runoff rate. A typical approach to LID
site design will seek to maximize the Tc by using conveyances that slow down travel times
without compromising the effectiveness of drainage away from buildings and off roadways.
LID favors the use of shallow vegetated conveyances rather than sewer pipes, for example,
open section road rather than curb and gutter, and the spreading of flows rather than the

12

concentration of flows. A discussion of how to determine runoff travel times and to calculate
Tc values is provided in Chapter 3 of TR-55.

5.3.3. LID Retention Features
The remaining input cells within the spreadsheet can be used for site components that retain
runoff. The spreadsheet calculates the total retention volume as a depth across the drainage area,
and for each time step checks to see whether that depth has been filled before generating runoff.
The SubareaCheck sheet is provided to compare the capacity of each retention
feature with the volume of runoff flowing into that feature. If the runoff volume
is less than the capacity of the retention feature, then that runoff volume rather
than the capacity should be counted in the MainPage input toward the reduction
in runoff.
Note that the volume check does not require a detailed analysis that generates an
area-weighted CN value based for each subarea contributing runoff. It is
sufficient only to show that the storage volume will be filled. Consequently,
evaluating the runoff from only a portion of the subarea (such as the impervious
area) or selecting an obviously low curve number for the subarea may produce a
volume that exceeds the retention capacity.
The SubareaCheck sheet also serves as a check on the underdrain flow for
individual LID features, such as rain gardens and permeable pavements. The
peak flow rate that occurs when the device is full may be controlled either by the
size of the underdrain orifice or by the flow rate through the subsurface media.
In either case, if the underdrain flow is substantial, it is conceivable that it may
diminish the effectiveness of that feature in reducing the peak flow rate at the
outlet.
An acceptable approach to accounting for the hydrologic influence of underdrains
is left here to the judgment of the engineer and the reviewing agency. In some
cases, relative to the peak flow rate for the entire site, the underdrain rate may be
insignificant. In other situations, as when underdrain rates are significant and
retention features are not along the same flow path, it may be acceptable to
require the LID hydrograph peak plus the sum of the underdrain flow rates to
equal the Unit Release Rate (URR) (cfs/ac) target.

5a-5c. These input lines indicate the typical capacity of the rain garden design no matter how
many rain gardens are used within the drainage area. The ponding depth should be
considered as an approximate average. While the ponding volume available in rain gardens
can be readily estimated based on surface contours, estimating the volume of subsurface

13

storage will require consideration of the soil characteristics and behavior during a storm
event.
The spreadsheet allows input of a value for fillable porosity. This is the amount of pore
space assumed to be available within the soil prior to the design storm event.
The porosity of a soil is the measure of the void space in an oven-dried soil sample. A
saturated soil has a water content equivalent to its porosity. As the soil drains by gravity to a
moisture level known as the field capacity, more pore space becomes available to hold water.
Over time, vegetation will extract moisture still further until the moisture level reaches the
wilting point.
Figure 5 shows how soil properties will affect values of the field capacity and the wilting
point. These values can be calculated using the software, Soil Water Properties from Texture
(Saxton 2003), which is based on research by Saxton et al. (1996).
For the purpose of LID design and analysis, the value of the fillable porosity should be no
greater than the difference between the porosity and the field capacity for soils in a rain
garden.

Figure 5. Moisture retention parameters associated with USDA soil texture classes
(Source: http://msw.cecs.ucf.edu/AndFiles/hlp2.html)

A question may arise as to whether the overall storage capacity of rain garden soils will
diminish significantly over time. It will be reasonable to assume a constant value for the
fillable porosity as long as the conditions at or near the soil surface do not impede infiltration

14

due to silting or surface crusting, and the vegetation is maintained. The use of a vegetated
filter strip or grassed area around a rain garden can help reduce the conveyance of sediment
into the rain garden.
In light of the various factors that can affect infiltration rates and subsurface storage volumes,
some consideration may be given to whether the value selected for the input will more likely
err on the side of overestimating or underestimating runoff rates at the outlet during an actual
storm event under typical conditions. A conservative approach to the analysis will involve
using smaller values for porosity.
Some consideration may also be given to the fact that some of the infiltration capacity in a
bioretention cell has been accounted for in the overall CN value for the drainage area. Where
surrounding soils are sandy with high rates of infiltration, a sandy bioretention soil may add
little to the capacity of the bioretention area to reduce runoff and consequently a conservative
value for the fillable porosity will be more desirable so that the infiltration capacity of the
bioretention area is not double counted. When the surrounding areas have low rates of
infiltration, however, larger values for the fillable porosity will be justified.
5d. This value is computed automatically.
5e. This is the area associated with the average design depth, roughly the average of the top and
bottom of the ponding area.
5f. This value is computed automatically.
6a-6b. Rain barrels can be situated at roof downspouts to collect runoff.
7a-7c. The capacity of vegetated roofs to absorb rainfall is a function of vegetated roof design,
and designs can vary considerably. The Maximum Water Capacity (MWC), is a benchmark
number that is discussed in Appendix D. Reasonable values for the multiplier will generally
lie between 0.33 and 0.67. The minimum value of the multiplier is the most conservative,
because it represents only the initial abstraction, the amount of rainfall quickly absorbed by
the roof at the beginning of the storm. Field capacity for a vegetated roof is typically about
0.50 of the MWC, which would leave the other 0.50 of the MWC available to absorb rainfall.
Since evapotranspiration between storm events will reduce the moisture content from field
capacity as far down as the wilting point, a value higher than 0.50 will tend to be more
representative of the condition of the vegetated roof following a dry period. Because the
antecedent moisture conditions for a vegetated roof will not generally be known, a median
multiplier value of 0.50 is recommended.
8. This input value is the total volume of cistern storage provided on site.
9a-9b. The depth of storage entered here is the total depth of water storage provided in the
permeable pavement system. This should take into account pore spaces in the pavement, as
well as the aggregate base layers beneath the payment. A gravel layer 8 inches deep with a

15

typical porosity of 0.40, for example, will provide a water storage depth of 3.2 inches for
each unit of pavement area.
10. This cell allows for the input of a combination of other retention volumes not already listed
above. This might include, for example, sand filters, infiltration trenches or infiltration
swales. The number entered here should be supported by calculations that show how a
surface component and subsurface component of storage have been taken into account. As
with the other retention volumes, this input value is interpreted as an added depth of storage
evenly distributed across the drainage area.

6. URR Summary
The URR Summary page (Figure 4b) shows how the use of LID features affects the runoff
hydrograph relative to the URR target.
6.1. Input
To determine whether your site design meets the URR requirements, enter input data required.
20. The MMSD Chapter 13 Uniform Release Rate flow target is 0.15 cfs/acre for the 2-year
storm and 0.50 cfs/acre for the 100-year storm.
6.2. Output
The Output Summary and Runoff Hydrographs will change instantaneously in response to user
input. (To easily view the input and output at the same time, select menu item View, then Zoom,
and lower the magnification.)
21a-21b. For the NoLID site condition, the runoff depth is calculated using standard NRCS
curve number calculations, and is equivalent to the area under the runoff hydrograph shown.
For the LID condition, the depth is also equivalent to the area under the corresponding runoff
hydrograph. That depth reflects both the curve number calculations based on land surface
conditions and the combination of retention volumes associated with the LID components
that have been sized on the Input page.
22a-22b. These peak flow values are obtained from the runoff hydrographs.
23a-23b. As illustrated in the hydrograph below the output tables, the detention volume is
estimated as the area above a straight diagonal line that starts at the runoff target and runs
tangent to the ascending limb of the runoff hydrograph. Drawing a diagonal line to a point
near the beginning of the runoff hydrograph is a common approach to estimating detention
volume.
24a-24b. Due to site constraints, LID features might not fully achieve the URR target. Such is
the case for the example illustrated in Figure 4b. Consequently, a detention pond at the

16

drainage area outlet may still be seen as necessary. However, rather than routing the entire
hydrograph through a detention pond, it may be more desirable to minimize the storage
requirement at the outlet by splitting out the flow that exceeds the desired flow rate, placing
only that excess flow into a retention area. Figure 6 illustrates the relationship between the
split flow retention storage volume and the detention storage requirements at the outlet.
25. As indicated in the legend, the two runoff hydrographs represent the runoff pattern with and
without an LID strategy applied. The beginning and ending time have been set at 8 and 18
hours, respectively so that the change in flow rate near the peak can be easily seen.

LID

LID Detention

Flow Target

1.00
0.90

Split Flow Retention

0.80
q (cfs/ac)

0.70
0.60

This Volume
+ Split Flow Retention
= Detention Volume

0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00
11

12

13

14

15

16

t (hours)
Figure 6. An example of how splitting flow at outlet can achieve a flow target for less than the volume
required by detention

7. Exporting the LID Hydrograph
The LID hydrograph can be exported to other programs for subsequent routing calculations, such
as those typically required in detention pond design and analysis. The OuputHydrograph sheet
contains the hydrograph values presented in three different ways:
1. As originally calculated (Columns A and B).
2. Calculated on a user-selected time step (Columns H and I).
3. Arranged and formatted for export to TR-20 READHD records (Column J through N).

17

See the OutputHydrograph sheet itself for more information.

8. References
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District, 2002. Surface Water and Stormwater Rules:
Interim Guidance Manual. Accessed on April 28, 2004 at
http://www.mmsd.com/stormwaterweb/Startpg.htm.
Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District, 2003. Memorandum: Evaluation of Stormwater
Reduction Practices.
Saxton, K. E., Rawls, W. J., Romberger, J. S. and Papendick, R. I. 1986. Estimating generalized
soil water characteristics from texture. Soil Sci. Soc. Amer. J. 50(4):1031-1036.
Saxton, K.E. 2003. Soil water characteristics from texture. United States Department of
Agriculture.
Soil Conservation Service, 1983. Computer Program for Project Formulation Hydrology,
Technical Release 20 (TR-20).
Soil Conservation Service, 1985. National Engineering Handbook, Section 4 (NEH-4).
Soil Conservation Service, 1986. Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release 55
(TR-55).

18

Appendix A.
Five Methods of Accounting for the
Effect of Distributed Retention on the Runoff Hydrograph
Paul Koch, Ph.D., P.E.
This Appendix describes five options that were considered to account for the retention volume
provided within a drainage area. Each of these options is derived in some way from the NRCS
unit hydrograph method. A comparison of the options provides a rationale for ultimately
selecting the one option incorporated into the spreadsheet.
The first two of these options performs calculations directly on the runoff hydrograph generated
without taking into account retention storage. The remaining three options employ calculations
that adjust the NRCS runoff depth formula before hydrograph components are generated.
Option 1. Truncated hydrograph
One approach to evaluating the impact of retention on a drainage area is to treat the retention as
if it is all provided in-line at the downstream end of the drainage area, just above the outlet. A
family of curves illustrating the results of this approach is shown in Figure A1. In that figure, the
influence of the retention is represented by a vertical line representing an assumed rising limb of
the hydrograph that corresponds to the moment that the retention storage is filled.
Note that for the retention to be expected to have any influence on the peak at all, it must have
the capacity to capture all the flow up to and past the peak—an approach which is likely to result
in fairly conservative designs. Where storage is provided with some uniformity upstream of the
outlet, however, it stands to reason that some of that retention will reduce the peak to some
degree even when the retention is provided in relatively small amounts.

4.0
3.5

Storage as
Percent of
Total Runoff

q (m3/s)

3.0
2.5

0%

2.0

25%

1.5

50%

1.0

75%

0.5
0.0
10

12

14

16

18

20

time (hours)

Figure A1. Retention volume evaluated as a truncation of the runoff hydrograph

19

Option 2. Scalar Multiplication
A second option involves taking the NoLID ordinates and simply multiplying them by the ratio
of the LID runoff depth to the NoLID runoff depth. For each flow rate represented in the NoLID
runoff hydrograph an adjusted flow rate was calculated as
⎛ Q
q adjust = q NoLID ⎜⎜ LID
⎝ Q NoLID

⎞
⎟⎟
⎠

(A1)

where qadjust = ordinate of adjusted runoff hydrograph
qNoLID = ordinate of runoff hydrograph for NoLID
QLID = total depth of runoff associated with LID
QNoLID = total depth of runoff associated with NoLID
A family of curves showing how the runoff hydrograph will be changed using this method with
increasing amounts of retention is presented in Figure A2. This method requires only a direct
adjustment in the magnitude of the runoff hydrograph. However, rather than reducing runoff by
filling the retention capacity toward the beginning of the storm event, this method places the
effect of much of the retention well after the hydrograph peak, significantly discounting the
degree to which a uniform distribution of retention would actually reduce the peak.

4.0
3.5

Storage as
Percent of
Total Runoff

q (m3/s)

3.0
2.5

0%

2.0

25%

1.5

50%

1.0

75%

0.5
0.0
10

12

14

16

18

20

time (hours)

Figure A2. Changes in runoff hydrograph when original hydrograph is
multiplied by a scalar to account for retention storage
A Closer Look at Runoff Hydrograph Calculations
The standard method for generating a runoff hydrograph using the SCS unit hydrograph with
convolution calculations offers several options for taking into account distributed retention
volumes within a drainage area. The calculations involve these steps for each time increment:
1. Within the storm event, calculate the total rainfall up to that point in time.
20

2. Check the total rainfall against the capacity that needs to be filled on the land surface (the
initial abstraction) before runoff can occur.
3. If the total rainfall exceeds the initial abstraction, construct a hydrograph that shows the
effect of that single increment of excess rainfall on the runoff pattern at the outlet.
4. Repeat for the next time step within the storm, offsetting the resulting hydrograph by the
time increment.
5. Add the components hydrographs to establish a total storm hydrograph for runoff at the
outlet.
TR-55 provides this formula for calculating the depth of runoff:

( P − I a )2
Q=
(P − I a ) + S

(A2)

where Q = runoff depth (in.)
P = precipitation depth (in.)
S = potential maximum retention after runoff begins
Ia = initial abstraction, volume that must be filled before runoff begins. Ia = 0.2 S
Additionally, S is related to the CN as

S=

1000
− 10 .
CN

(A3)

Current software implementations of TR-55 and TR-20 calculate Equations A2 and A3.

Option 3. Subtract retention from rainfall

If the retention distributed in a watershed is sufficiently uniform, it might be convenient simply
to divide the total retention volume by the drainage area and subtract the result from the rainfall
along with Ia.
Letting R represent the total retention volume divided by total drainage area, the calculation of
runoff using this approach can be formulated as follows:

( P − I a − R )2
Q=
(P − I a − R ) + S

(A4)

Subsequently, the analyst can perform the usual unit hydrograph calculations. However, the
approach is problematic because the volume of retention provided will never be fully accounted
for. Just as runoff is always less than rainfall when the standard formula is used, the change in
runoff volume will always be less than the volume of retention actually provided when the
retention volume is first subtracted from the rainfall before the runoff depth is calculated.

21

For example, if the depth of precipitation is 2.57 inches over a drainage area having a CN of 80,
then the depth of runoff is 0.94 inches. If the distributed retention depth is 0.39 inches, then
subtracting the retention from the rainfall leads to a runoff of 0.67 inches. But since 0.94 - 0.67
= 0.27 rather than 0.39, it is clear that not all the retention depth has been accounted for using
this approach. If it were, the final runoff value would be approximately 19% less.
A family of curves showing how the runoff hydrograph will be changed using this method with
different amounts of retention is shown in Figure 3. It is worth noting that when the retention
storage capacity is equated to the total runoff volume without retention, there is still some runoff.
At the extreme, Equation 5 indicates that reducing the amount of runoff to zero requires that the
amount of excess rainfall (P – Ia – R) be reduced to zero. Because this ignores the infiltration
potential of the ground upstream of the retention area, the technical inadequacy of this approach
is apparent.

4.0
Storage as
Percent of
Total Runoff

3.5
q (m3/s)

3.0
2.5

0%

2.0

25%

1.5

50%

1.0

75%

0.5
0.0
10

12

14

16

18

20

time (hours)

Figure A3. Changes in runoff hydrograph when storage is subtracted from rainfall

Option 4. Subtract retention from runoff

Subtracting retention from the runoff generated by the land surface will account for the retention
explicitly, as in this formula:

( P − I a )2
Q=
−R
(P − I a ) + S

(A5)

Within the NRCS convolution calculations, the formula can be applied as follows: First the
standard runoff volume is calculated, and then it is checked against the available retention
volume to determine whether that volume has been filled. After the total runoff exceeds the total
retention volume, a component of the runoff hydrograph is developed to represent the
incremental amount of runoff generated in each succeeding time increment.

22

If the retention is constrained to a small percentage of the total drainage area, it seems reasonable
to assume that the S value for the drainage area as a whole will not change. An upward or
downward revision of S may be warranted depending on the effect of the retention facility on the
local infiltration capacity. For rain gardens, which are typically designed with highly pervious
soil mixtures, keeping the S representative of the surrounding land cover will constitute a
conservative assumption, more likely leading to an overestimation rather than underestimation of
runoff.
A family of curves showing how the runoff hydrograph will be changed using this method with
different amounts of retention is shown in Figure A4. While this option is straightforward,
current software implementations of TR-55 and TR-20 cannot calculate Equation A5.
Adaptation of NRCS methods using the formulation for this option requires other software.

4.0
3.5

Storage as
Percent of
Total Runoff

q (m3/s)

3.0
2.5

0%

2.0

25%

1.5

50%

1.0

75%

0.5
0.0
10

12

14

16

18

20

time (hours)

Figure A4. Changes in runoff hydrograph when storage is subtracted from runoff

Option 5. Adjust CN for 24-hour Storm Depth

A standard assumption given in TR-55 is that Ia = 0.2S. Consequently, the NRCS standard
runoff equation is sometimes expressed as
2
(
P − 0.2 S )
Q=

P + 0.8S

(A5)

Subtracting the total retention from the total runoff at the end of a storm event gives a runoff
value that a different S value can be based on. The equation

Q−R =

(P − 0.2S )2
P + 0.8S

(A6)

23

can be solved for a revised value of S, which will increase with increases in retention, and then a
revised CN value can be calculated from the revised S. That revised CN can subsequently be
used to generate a new runoff hydrograph.
This approach does properly account for the effect of the retention volume on the runoff volume
for the storm as a whole. That is, the total area under the runoff hydrograph will be equivalent to
Q minus R. The remaining difficulty is that the effect of the retention volume is not fully
accounted for until the end of the storm. By design, the placement of retention should typically
result in the retention cells being filled well before the end of the storm, so that retention will
actually have greater value in reducing the peak flow than a simple CN adjustment would
indicate.

4.0
Storage as
Percent of
Total Runoff

3.5
q (m3/s)

3.0
2.5

0%

2.0

25%

1.5

50%

1.0

75%

0.5
0.0
10

12

14

16

18

20

time (hours)

Figure A5. Changes in runoff hydrograph when CN adjustment is made to
account for retention storage

Runoff Depth Comparisons

There are significant differences in the depth of runoff calculated for these three different
approaches. Figure A6 shows a comparison of depth calculations for Options 3, 4 and 5.
Relative to the standard runoff curve, Option 3 moves the runoff curve to the right, and Option 4
moves it downward. Option 5 starts somewhat to the right of the standard curve, and ends where
the difference in runoff is equal to the total depth of retention.
It is worth noting that the CN adjustment method will produce a different CN value for different
depths of rainfall, even if the land cover, soil characteristics and amount of added retention
remains the same. If, as Figure A6 shows, a CN is determined using Equation A6 for a rainfall
depth of 80 mm and retention depth of 10 mm, the amount of runoff generated for 60 mm of
rainfall is approximately 13 mm. However, if a CN is recalculated using Equation A6 for a
rainfall depth of 60 mm, the amount of runoff is approximately 10 mm.

24

This presents a logical difficulty. Since the accumulation of precipitation from 0 to 80 mm
passes through the value of 60 mm, it seems reasonable to expect that the runoff depth associated
with 60 mm should be the same for the same land use and soil type, regardless of whether the
storm lasts longer.

Standard Formula

P minus R

Q minus R

CN Adjustment

40

Runoff Q (mm)

35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
0

20

40

60

Rainfall P (mm)

80

100

2.57 in

Figure A6. Comparison of depth of runoff calculations
(CN = 80; overall retention depth = 10 mm)

Runoff Peak Comparisons

A comparison of the effect of the five options on the runoff peak is illustrated in Figure A7. The
chart shows that accounting for the runoff volume as described in Option 4 results in the least
amount of runoff for all but the highest levels of peak runoff reduction, and, overall, is nearly as
efficient as detention in terms of achieving a relative reduction in peak flow for a given volume
of storage. Option 4 was selected for implementation in the LID spreadsheet.

25

Percent of Runoff Peak Remaining

100%

80%
R_trunc
R_as_P

60%

R_as_Q
Scalar
40%

CN_adj
Detention

20%

0%
0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

Volume Stored, as Percent of Total Runoff

Figure A4. Comparison of different methods to account for runoff storage
(CN = 75, Tc=1 hr, D.A. = 1 km2)

26

Appendix B.
Summary of Spreadsheet Contents

Normally visible sheets:
1. ReadMe
2. MainPage
3. SubareaCheck
4. RainDistribution
5. OutputHydrograph

Describes basic program purpose and identifies developer.
Two-page user interface.
Confirms that all retention volumes will be filled.
For inputting the temporal rainfall distribution.
Runoff hydrograph for the LID site design.

Normally hidden sheets:
6. PlotData
Hydrograph data plotted on the output page.
7. Convolve
Convolution calculations in metric (SI) units.
8. RainfallPlot Chart showing cumulative rainfall distribution for Type II storm.
9. SplitFlow
Calculates area of LID hydrograph above peak flow target.
Convolve receives user input from MainPage, performs computations in metric units and returns
the output values in English units.

27

Appendix C.
Curve Numbers and Subsurface Storage
for Porous Pavement and Permeable Pavers

NRCS Runoff Curve Numbers for Porous Pavement
Gravel
Subbase
Thickness

Curve Number
for Various
Hydrologic Soil Groups

(inches)

A

B

C

D

10

57

66

69

75

12

56

64

68

74

14

55

63

67

72

16

54

62

65

70

18

53

61

64

69

20

52

60

63

68

24

52

58

61

66

30

49

55

57

61

36

47

52

55

58

Notes

•
•
•

Source: Engineering Field Manual Notice – NENTC 25, released by the Northeast
National Technical Center of the USDA Soil Conservation Service, June 22, 1986.
The CN values are based on Antecedent Moisture Condition II and an Ia of 0.25 inches.
All the CN values are for properly maintained porous pavement. The CN values for
porous pavement that is not properly maintained is the default CN for pavement, which is
98.

Limitations

•
•
•
•

The infiltration rate of asphalt layer is not limiting. Minimum infiltration rate is 0.27
in/hr.
The season high water table is greater than 2.0 feet below the gravel layer.
There is at least 2.0 feet of soil below the gravel layer.
The potential maximum retention after runoff begins includes storage in pavement gravel
and soil.

28

General Suggestions Regarding Permeable Paver Systems

“There are […] no specific curve numbers for permeable pavements. […] CN = 65 is an average
number based on the fact that virtually all permeable pavements can store about 2 inches of
rainfall (in the base layer) before infiltrating it or draining it elsewhere (either into the subgrade,
if permeable, or into a drainage system). This is an estimate based on storage capacity within
open-graded bases (typically 30-40% of the total base volume).
“Many permeable pavements will be built on A or B soils and we know that thicker bases means
more storage capacity, and when placed on A or B soils, there will be infiltration rather than
runoff. However in any underlying soil case, the infiltration rate and storage capacity of the base
will be greater than that of the underlying soil. Therefore, the CN for permeable pavers will be
lower than the underlying soil (substantially in some cases). The CN 65 is considered a starting
point (conservative) considering the infiltration rate of permeable pavements are based on
various factors - design storms, underlying soil, supplemental drainage (if used), pavement load,
climate, etc. Unfortunately there isn't one uniform design.
“The 65 number was derived from TR - 55 Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Table 2-1
Runoff depth for selected CNs and rainfall amounts. It is based on the fact that virtually any
permeable pavement will infiltrate and store up to 2 inches of rainfall (virtually no runoff). In
many cases, as I've mentioned it can store much more, resulting in an even lower curve number.
You may be able to extrapolate from this to assign numbers for various soils.
“Though pervious pavements have been around awhile (asphalt and ready-mix concrete),
interlocking permeable pavers have only been around (in the U.S.) for about 10 years, with most
use over the last few years. Perhaps they will be measured in the future for CN values, though
because of the variables, it might take a lot of testing over the entire country to get good average
parameters. “
Donna DeNinno
UNI-GROUP U.S.A.
May 15, 2003

29

Appendix D.
Runoff Storage Capacity of Vegetated Roofs

See paper by Charlie Miller on the following pages.
Edited slightly as indicated by brackets.
Used by permission.

Disclaimer: This paper is provided here for informational purposes only. Providing this information does not
constitute an endorsement of Roofscapes, Inc. by MMSD. Nor does it constitute an endorsement by Roofscapes,
Inc., of the method of analysis associated with the LID Quicksheet.

30

Charlie Miller, P.E., Principal
7114 McCallum Street
Philadelphia, PA 19119
P 215-247-8784
F 215-247-4659
CMILLER @ROOFMEADOW.COM
WWW.ROOFMEADOW.COM

Use of Vegetated Roof Covers in Runoff Management
By Charlie Miller, P.E.
The effectiveness of green roofs in reducing runoff impacts, especially in densely
developed areas, is one of the principal reasons that they are so popular with city
engineers in Germany. In Germany alone, more than 20 million square feet of new
green roof are installed every year. Many cities require green roofs for buildings in
districts that are plagued by chronic runoff-related problems.
Initial abstraction is an engineering term that describes the quantity of rainfall that
must occur before appreciable runoff will commence. An approximate rule-of-thumb
for a wide range of green roofs is that the initial abstraction will equal about 1/3 of the
maximum water capacity, MWC, of the growing medium. The MWC is a benchmark
number that is measured in a specific test used in Europe [and available in the
United States]. For example, a green roof with an MWC of 1.5 inches will not
generate significant runoff until at least 0.5 inches of rainfall has occurred.
Vegetated roof covers are very effective in reducing total runoff volume. A predictor
of the percent reduction in total annual runoff volume is:
Pct. Reduction = 100 x 0.45 x MWC1/3
A typical green roof with about 3 inches of growing media can be designed to reduce
annual runoff by more than 50 percent. However, it is very important to keep in mind
that this information is based on experience in temperate climates with a rainfall
pattern similar to the American Northeast. For instance in the Pacific Northwest,
where rainfall tends to occur in steady long-duration events, the reduction in runoff
volume may be not be as great.
Another property of interest is field capacity. This is the quantity of water absorbed
by the green roof during a rainfall event that will not be later released as runoff. This
water will eventually be evapotranspired by the plants. The difference between the
field capacity and the MWC determines how effective a green roof will be in
suppressing peak rates of runoff during storms. For many types of green roof media,
the field capacity is equal to about ½ of the MWC.

31

Runoff Control Using Thin Vegetated Covers
A critical aspect of using vegetated roof covers is to clearly identify the
management goals and develop suitable design criteria. It has been
demonstrated in Germany that the 3-inch vegetated roof cover has the highest
benefit to cost ratio. A properly designed 3-inch vegetated roof cover will provide
a durable, low maintenance system that can achieve the objectives of
moderating temperature, reducing runoff, and prolonging the life of the underlying
waterproofing materials. Furthermore, these systems can be added to most
existing buildings, often without having to reinforce or otherwise alter their
structural design.
The value of green roofs in reducing the rate of runoff depends upon the design
rainfall events that are considered. For communities where runoff rates are
computed using the rational method (which emphasizes the impact of intense shortduration rainfall events), thin vegetated covers can typically satisfy runoff
management goals for 10-, 25-, and in some cases even 50-year return design
storms. Where design storms are based on 24-hour events, it is generally possible
to demonstrate control of runoff to pre-development levels for storms up to several
inches in magnitude (i.e., a two-year storm magnitude in southeastern Pennsylvania).
It is also helpful to keep in mind that in southeastern Pennsylvania 24-hour storms
with magnitudes of less than 1.5 inches contribute more than 90 percent of all rainfall.
In Germany the standard design event for urban runoff management is one inch of
rainfall falling in 15 minutes. This would be a 10-year return frequency event in
southeastern Pennsylvania. In our opinion, the runoff requirements for urban areas
that are undergoing redevelopment should be based on the type of the storm that is
linked to chronic runoff-related problems (e.g., nuisance flooding, combined serer
overflow, TMDL exceedances). By-and-large these are summer downpours.
Therefore, runoff abatement programs should focus on these storms. Green roofs
can be a powerful tool for achieving this benefit.
Deep Vegetated Covers and Zero Discharge Installations
A typical 14-inch deep green roof can be relied on to reduce total annual runoff by 85
to 95 percent in temperate climates. In combination with other water management
techniques, zero discharge is a readily attainable goal. The following are excellent
examples of the integration of a variety of techniques to eliminate off-site discharge of
rainfall runoff. These techniques include green roofs, cisterns, facade planters,
reflecting pools, infiltration beds, and utility water recycling systems. Unfortunately,
all of the information concerning these systems is in German. However, we have
summarized some of these in English. The important points to remember are that: 1)
these integrated building systems are a reality in Germany and that 2) a variety of
techniques must be deployed in unison to achieve the goal. Although factors such as
climate and geologic conditions will influence the design, there will always be a way
to achieve the objective.

32

Cross Savings Bank (Kreissparkasse) in Weilburg
This building occupies a 3,250 square-foot area. The management system
utilizes a combination of green roof landscapes, ranging in size from 2 to 6
inches in thickness. Cisterns are used to capture excess runoff for reuse in
irrigation during dry periods.
Europe Park (Europapark) in Rust
This project also has a footprint of 3,250 square feet. Green roofs in
combination with cisterns and low-head irrigation pumps, powered by
photovoltaic panels, characterize this project.
New Convention Center (Neue Messe) in Munich
The Convention Center is a 409,000 (9 acre) square-foot complex. This is a
very exciting project that integrates many management techniques. Green
roofs are an essential part of the zero-discharge design and are responsible
for up to 85% of the reduction in runoff. The remaining runoff reduction is
accomplished by recycling runoff for utility uses and by infiltration. The
Optigrün RWS computer simulation program was used to estimate the
efficiency of the green roofs so that the other practices could be properly
sized.
Commercial Center in Bondorf
This is a 40-acre development with zero runoff discharge. This stringent
requirement was the result of the inability of the local wastewater treatment
plant to absorb additional water from runoff. Fully 70 percent of the total area
is covered with impermeable surfaces. In addition to green roofs and water
recycling, this project relies on large infiltration galleries and landscape pools
to infiltrate water.
[…]The following projects are also noteworthy.
Prisma building in Nurnberg
The water management system for this project incorporates green roofs,
cisterns, façade planters, water-curtain climate control, gray water recycling,
and infiltration. Water management is made part of an overall artistic
statement. This project was described recently in the ASLA Professional
Interest Group Water Conservation, Vol. III, No. 1, 1999.
Pottsdamer Platz in Berlin
While not strictly an example of zero discharge, this ultra-urban development
points the way to the possibilities of integrated runoff design. The design

33

beautifully integrates extensive green roofs (2 to 3 inches) with reflecting
pools, created wetlands, cisterns, and water recycling. The primary limitation
of this project was the deliberate decision not to treat runoff from roads and
main thoroughfares. Infiltration opportunities were also very limited due to the
high water table on the floodplain of the river Sprey.
National Bank of Baden-Würtenberg (Landesbank) in Stuttgart
This is another Optigrün project, which involves covering half of the 43,000
square-foot site with green roofs. A very lovely and diverse roof landscape is
used to eliminate all but about 5% of annual runoff. Profiles range form 4 to
16 inches in depth.
[…]
The following table summarizes output from the [empirical Optigrün-]RWS computer
simulation program for a 3.25-inch thick proto-type installation for the Fencing
Academy of Philadelphia. This simulation utilized a one-year, 5-minute digital rainfall
record. Two standard design storms were also inserted into the rainfall record. The
predictions of the simulation were verified by field observation of the proto-type. The
output illustrates that this thin green roof is much more effective in controlling brief
rainfall events than long-duration storms. However, significant runoff rate
suppression was achieved for all storm events. Similar analyses can be conducted
as part of the feasibility phase of other projects.

34

Selected Storms: RWS Simulation of One-Year Rainfall Record
3.25-inch (8 cm) Deep Extensive Vegetated Roof Cover
Rainfall record for Reading, Pennsylvania (1994)
Rainfall
15-min
Peak Rate
in/hr

Rainfall
24-hour
Volume
in

15-min
Peak
Discharge
in/hr

1.6
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.8
1.2
1.2
1.6
1.6
2.4
3.2
3.5
5.4

0.9
1.1
1.0
1.2
1.5
0.6
1.3
1.1
1.0
1.3
3.4
2.8
4.9

negligible
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.4
0.7
0.3
0.5
0.7
1.4
1.3
2.8

Attenuation
Comments

100%
63%
59%
72%
56%
63%
39%
81%
69%
71%
57%
61%
47%

"cloud burst:" peak occurs in first 25 min.

Standard 2-year: type II rainfall distribution
Standard 10-year: type II rainfall distribution

35



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 1/5/15
SECTION 32 12 16
Asphalt Paving
NTS:  This specification is intended to be used for parking lots, access roads, streets, and other projects that experience standard traffic loads.  Tailor it to fit actual project conditions.  Although this section references standard roadway or highway specifications, it is not applicable for Contract Documents that include, partially or in their entirety, Indiana Department of Transportation or Allen County Highway Department specifications modified by special provisions.  
This Master Specification is not a "Standard" specification and thus requires careful and experienced editing to fit your specific project needs. Ensure that this Section is coordinated with the Standard Details and with the requirements of the Authority Having Jurisdiction of the project area. 
GENERAL
DEFINITIONS
Combined Aggregate: All mineral constituents of asphalt concrete mix, including mineral filler and separately sized aggregates.
RAP: Reclaimed asphalt pavement.
Provide hot-mix asphalt paving according to materials, workmanship, and other applicable requirements in accordance with the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402.
Related Sections:
NTS:  List below list of sections covering products, construction and equipment that a user might expect to find in this section, but are specified elsewhere.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections.
Section 31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork. 
NTS:  Section "1.2" is to be included if project is bid on unit price basis. Section to be deleted or revised if project is to be bid on lump sum basis.

NTS:   Specifier must verify that a pay item is included for Article "1.2"  as applicable for each specific project or if the pay item(s) will be included as part of the contract unit price for pavement restoration.

NTS:  Insert at (--1--) and (--2--) below the asphalt paving and milling to be used for project.  Adjust Section "1.2" below for additional work item numbers as needed. 

NTS: Edit the patching pay limits width listed in Article "1.2" below based on project specific requirements. 
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
Hot Mix Asphalt Patching 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-A (--1--) HMA Patching 
       	32 12 16-B (--2--) HMA Patching 
The payment for HMA asphalt patching shall be based on the Contract unit price per square yard for the depth shown and shall include tack coat. HMA patching shall not include surface course. 
The asphalt patching shall be measured in square yards per the thickness installed. The pay limits shall be equal to the pay limits of the trench width plus 2 feet.  (O.D. +30"+ 2').
Asphalt Surface Overlay 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-C (--1--) Asphalt Surface Overlay
       	32 12 16-D (--2--) Asphalt Surface Overlay
The payment for asphalt surface overlay shall be based on the unit price per square yard for the depth and shall include tack coat. This work item does not include a base or intermediate course.   
The overlay of asphalt surface pavement shall be measured in square yards per the thickness installed. The pay limits shall be as shown on the project drawings or field determined by the Engineer or their representative.
Milling
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-E (--1--) Milling
       	32 12 16-F (--2--) Milling
Payment under this item shall be on a unit price basis per the thickness completed.
The pay quantity shall be the square yards for the depth specified as shown on the plans or directed by the Engineer and actually milled. 
The unit price shall constitute full compensation for providing all labor, materials, and equipment, both temporary and permanent, and all other cost associated with pavement removal. This work item does not include the cost for milling over the trench. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Edit "D" below for project specific requirements. Coordinate with Section 32 13 00 Rigid Paving if rigid and asphalt pavement are used on the same project. Measurement and Payment shall only be located in one section and should clearly state that payment of pavement markings include both asphalt pavement and rigid pavement.  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Add additional work items as necessary for pavement markings types and layouts. 
Pavement Markings 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-G (--1--) Pavement Markings
This item is measured on a lump sum basis for work shown on the plans, otherwise specified, or necessary to complete work shown on the Drawings.
Payment for pavement marking work shall be paid based on the percentage of the lump sum contract price corresponding to the percentage successfully completed of work specified in the Contract Documents or shown on the plans. 
Pavement marking layout shall be confirmed with City of Fort Wayne Traffic Engineering prior to construction of the markings. 
This work shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment, both permanent and temporary, associated with pavement traffic markings work shown on the Contract Drawings and shall include the following: recording locations of existing pavement and curb markings prior to construction, cleaning pavement or curb to be painted or marked, furnishing and installing permanent pavement markings in accordance with City of Fort Wayne Traffic Engineering, and any other requirements to complete the Work in accordance with these Drawings and Specifications, unless otherwise classified by the Engineer as a separate Work item.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Typically temporary trench repair is used during cold weather, when asphalt plants are not operational. Based on project specific requirements retain paragraph "E" below. Insert at (--1--) the project specific thickness. If project contains rigid pavement coordinate the following work item with Section 32 13 00- Rigid Pavement. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Currently Cold Mixed Asphalt is specified for the temporary patch material; edit the following work item, Part 2- Products and Part 3 Execution if a different material is required for project.  
Temporary Trench Repair 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-H (--1--) Temporary Pavement Repair 
Temporary pavement repair shall be utilized with permanent pavement is not available. 
Contractor shall avoid removing concrete panels to the nearest joint. 
Temporary pavement repair shall be measured by the square yard of the thickness specified including additional base aggregate as necessary, complete in place. 
Limits shall be equal to the pay limits of the trench width plus 1 foot. (O.D. +30"+ 1').
This item shall include all costs for furnishing and placing all materials including furnishing additional base aggregate to construct the temporary pavement level with existing paved surfaces, placing and temporary Cold Mixed Asphalt (CMA) as shown on the Drawings, removal of CMA and base aggregate as necessary to construct permanent surface restoration, base aggregate and removal as necessary for placement of final patching. 
75 percent of the payment for each square yard of temporary pavement repair will be paid for installation and maintenance of said temporary surface. Upon removal of temporary surface the remaining percentage will be paid per square yard.
Contractor shall also monitor and repair temporary pavement surface as necessary until the permanent surface restoration.
Chip & Seal Patching 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-I (--1--) Chip & Seal Patching  
The payment for chip & seal patching shall be based on the Contract unit price per square yard for the depth shown and shall include tack coat. Chip & seal patching shall not include surface course. 
The chip & seal patching shall be measured in square yards per the thickness installed. The pay limits shall be equal to the pay limits of the trench width plus 2 feet.  (O.D. +30"+ 2')
The cost of 10" compacted No. 53 aggregate shall be included in the chip & seal patching pay item. 
This item shall include all cost to furnish all labor, materials, tools and equipment, both temporary and permanent, and all other costs associated with pavement patching.  
Chip & Seal Surface Overlay 
Work Item Number and Title
       	32 12 16-J (--1--) Chip & Seal Surface Overlay 
The payment for chip & seal surface overlay shall be based on the unit price per square yard for the depth installed. This work item includes the surface over the trench repair.   
The overlay of chip & seal surface overlay shall be measured in square yards per the thickness installed. The pay limits shall be as shown on the project drawings or field determined by the Engineer or their representative.
REFERENCES
NTS:  Retain all applicable standards below.  Add others as required. 
Standards referenced in this Section are listed below:
ASTM International:  
ASTM D242, Standard Specification for Mineral Filler for Bituminous Paving Mixtures.
ASTM D692, Standard Specification for Coarse Aggregate for Bituminous Paving Mixtures. 
ASTM D1073, Standard Specification for Fine Aggregate for Bituminous Paving Mixtures.
ASTM D3666, Standard Specification for Minimum Requirements for Agencies Testing and Inspecting Road and Paving Materials.
ASTM D3910, Standard Practices for Design, Testing, and Construction of Slurry Seal. 
Asphalt Institute (AI):
MS-22, Principles of Construction of Hot Mix Asphalt Pavements 
Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) - Standard Specifications:
Section 402, Hot Mix Asphalt, HMA, Pavement.
Section 406, Tack Coat.
Section 808, Pavement Traffic Markings. 
Section 904, Aggregates.
Section 916, Materials Certifications.  
Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT)  -  Design Manual:
Chapter 17, Quantity Estimating. 
Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT)  -  ITM 
ITM 583- Certified Hot Mix Asphalt Producer Program 
NTS:  Specifier must discuss with Owner if any additional submittals are required in addition to those listed in Section "1.4".
For additional information on asphalt pavements and product approval see INDOT Sections 400 and 902. For submittal reviewer reference INDOT tables have been added to at the end of this Section. Verify that the submitted mix design complies with the INDOT standards.   Tables to be deleted by specifier.  
SUBMITTALS
Job Mix Designs:  For each asphalt mix design the Contractor shall submit a copy of the following information on an INDOT Material and Test Division standard form or similar:
Mixture course
HMA mix type
Source of each asphalt material
Binder 
Material content and percentages
Proposed gradation for each aggregate to be used in flexible paving.  Submit gradation test results for the dame material furnished on a previous project.
Indicate proportion of bituminous material from reclaimed asphalt pavement.
Provide a copy of the INDOT list of certified hot mix asphalt producers, dated within the last 12 months and highlight the plant name and certification number, on the list.
Provide a copy of the INDOT list of approved HMA mix design laboratories, dated within the last 12 months and highlight the laboratory name and certification number, on the list.
QUALITY ASSURANCE
Manufacturer Qualifications:  Manufacturer shall be an INDOT certified hot mix asphalt producer, in accordance with ITM 583, and shall be listed on the most recent version of the INDOT list of certified hot mix asphalt producers, unless otherwise approved by the Owner.
Laboratory Qualifications:  Testing laboratory shall be an INDOT certified hot mix asphalt laboratory and shall be listed on the most recent version of the INDOT list of certified hot mix asphalt laboratories, unless otherwise approved by the Owner.
Testing Agency Qualifications:  Testing agency shall be qualified according to ASTM D 3666 for testing indicated.
Regulatory Requirements:  Comply with INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402 and provisions thereto for asphalt paving Work.
Asphalt-Paving Publication:  Comply with Asphalt Institute (AI) MS-22, "Construction of Hot Mix Asphalt Pavements," unless more stringent requirements are indicated.
NTS:  A Pre-Construction Meeting is beneficial for large projects with multiple mix designs and other requirements.  Paragraph "e" can be deleted on smaller projects.
Pre-construction Meeting:  Conduct conference at Project Site. Review methods and procedures related to hot-mix asphalt paving including, but not limited to, the following:
Review condition of subgrade and preparatory Work.
Review requirements for protecting paving Work, including restriction of traffic during installation period and for remainder of construction period.
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
Environmental Limitations:  Do not apply asphalt materials if subgrade is wet or excessively damp or if the following conditions are not met:
Tack Coats:  Minimum surface temperature of 60 deg F.
Slurry Coat:  Comply with weather limitations of ASTM D 3910.
Asphalt Base Course:  Minimum surface temperature of 40 deg F and rising at time of placement.
Asphalt Surface Course:  Minimum surface temperature of 60 deg F at time of placement.
PRODUCTS
AGGREGATES
General:  All aggregates used in asphalt mixture shall be in accordance with INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 904.  Use materials and gradations that have performed satisfactorily in previous installations. 
Coarse Aggregate:  ASTM D 692, hard, strong; angular crushed stone, crushed gravel, or properly cured, crushed blast-furnace slag.
Fine Aggregate: ASTM D 1073, sharp-edged natural sand or sand prepared from stone, gravel, properly cured blast-furnace slag, or combinations thereof.
Mineral Filler:  ASTM D 242, rock or slag dust, hydraulic cement, or other inert material.
ASPHALT MATERIALS
Hot Mix Asphalt (HMA) material shall conform to applicable requirements of the INDOT Standard Specification latest edition, Sections 402.  
Tack Coat: Rapid-cure liquid asphalt conforming to INDOT Standard Specification latest edition, Section 406.
Water:  Potable.
Reclaimed Asphalt Pavement (RAP): Per INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402.08 for Recycled Asphalt Pavement shall not exceed 25% by weight (mass) of the total mixture.
Reclaimed Asphalt Shingles (RAS) shall not be used on design mix formulas or job mix formulas. 
NTS:  Edit the temporary pavement repair material below as required for project. 
TEMPORARY PAVEMENT REPAIR
Temporary pavement repair shall be Cold Mixed Asphalt (CMA) Intermediate, No. 8 or 9 in accordance with INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 403.
CHIP & SEAL MATERIALS
Furnish No.9 and No.11 and No.53 stone as specified in the most recent edition of the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications.  AE-90's Modified Sealing Asphalt shall also be supplied.
A.	NTS: Edit Article "2.5": Pavement Marking Materials below, to suit the needs of the project. Including desires of Owner and Authority Having Jurisdiction over the pavement. Regarding Handicap parking space marking verify local requirements. Delete paint colors not required for project. 
PAVEMENT MARKING MATERIALS
Pavement marking materials shall be in accordance with INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 808 for Pavement Traffic Markings.
Colors:  
Roadway Center Markings Between Opposing Traffic Lanes: Yellow.
Roadway Side Striping: White, unless otherwise shown or specified.  On roads with divided median, right-side striping of each direction shall be white, and left-side striping shall be yellow.
Roadway Miscellaneous Lane Markings (turn lane arrows and text): White.
No-Parking Areas: Yellow.
Handicap Parking Spaces: Unless otherwise indicated with signs, provide handicap symbol on pavement with white paint on blue background.
MIXES
NTS:  Insert at (--1--), (--2--), and (--3--) below the mixture type required for the project. Hot mix asphalt (HMA) Type A (residential or commercial driveways and parking lots), B, C or D depending on the roadway classification is to be defined in this section.  Specifier must discuss the proposed typical HMA section with Owner prior to finalizing the HMA type in paragraph "A" below.  Specifier to verify that the required thickness of each course of the HMA is indicated on the Contract Drawings.  If not indicated on the drawings the thickness of each course will should be added to Section 2.6a in the form of total course thickness or in units of lbs/sqyd.
Hot-Mix Asphalt (HMA):  Provide dense, hot-laid, hot-mix asphalt plant mixes with the following requirements: 
Provide mixes with a history of satisfactory performance in geographical area where Project is located.
Surface Course: INDOT HMA Surface Type (--1--)
Intermediate Course:  INDOT HMA Intermediate Type (--2--)
Base Course: INDOT HMA Base Type (--3--)
EXECUTION
GENERAL 
NTS:  Coordinate this Section with Section 01 55 23  -  Maintenance and Protection of Traffic.  
Traffic Control:
Provide traffic control in accordance with Section 01 55 26, Maintenance and Protection of Traffic.
Minimize inconvenience to traffic, but keep vehicles off freshly treated or paved surfaces to avoid pickup and tracking of asphalt.
Driveways: Re-pave driveways as specified in the Construction Documents. Leave driveways in as good or better condition than before start of Work.
Plant discharge temperature shall not be greater than 315 deg F with PG 58-28, PG 64- 22, or PG 70-22 binders. And not greater than 325 deg F with PG 70-28 or PG76-22 binders.
WEATHER LIMITATIONS 
HMA courses less than 110 lb/sq yd are to be placed when the ambient and surface temperature are 60° F or above.  
HMA courses equal to or greater than 110 lb/sq yd but less than 220 lb/sq yd are to be placed when the ambient and surface temperatures are 45° F or above.  
HMA courses equal to or greater than 220 lb/sq yd and HMA curbing are to be placed when the ambient and surface temperatures are 32° F or above. 
 Mixture shall not be placed on a frozen subgrade.  However, HMA courses may be placed at lower temperatures, provided the density of the HMA course is in accordance with 402.16.
Do not place HMA Surface mix after October 1st.
LINE AND GRADE
Provide and maintain intermediate control of line and grade, independent of underlying base, to meet finish surface grades and minimum thickness.
Shoulders: Construct to line, grade, and cross-section shown.
PREPARATION
Prepare subgrade as specified in Section 31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork or INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402.11.
NTS: Edit the existing material depth based on project specific requirements. 
Existing Roadway:
Modify profile by grinding, milling, or overlay methods as approved, to provide transition to existing adjacent pavement and surfaces and to produce smooth riding connection to existing facility.
Remove existing material to a minimum depth of 1 1/2 inches.
Paint edges of existing adjacent pavement with tack coat prior to placing new pavement.
Thoroughly coat edges of contact surfaces (curbs, manhole frames) with emulsified asphalt or asphalt cement prior to laying new pavement. Prevent staining of adjacent surfaces.
EXAMINATION
Verify that subgrade is dry and in suitable condition to support paving and imposed loads.
Proof-roll subbase using heavy, pneumatic-tired rollers to locate areas that are unstable or that require further compaction.
Proceed with paving only after unsatisfactory conditions have been corrected.
NTS:  Retain this article if patching existing pavement. 
PATCHING
NTS:  Retain Paragraph "a" if existing pavement is hot mix asphalt (HMA).
Pavement Removal:  Saw cut perimeter of pavement to be removed and excavate existing pavement section to sound base.  Excavate rectangular or trapezoidal patches, extending 12 inches  into adjacent sound pavement, unless otherwise indicated.  Cut excavation faces vertically.  Remove excavated material.  Recompact existing unbound-aggregate base course to form new subgrade.
NTS:  Retain Paragraph "B" if existing pavement is Portland Cement Concrete.
Portland Cement Concrete (PCCP) Pavement:  Break cracked slabs and roll as required to reseat concrete pieces firmly.
Pump hot undersealing asphalt under rocking slabs until slab is stabilized or, if necessary, crack slab into pieces and roll to reseat pieces firmly.
Remove disintegrated or badly cracked pavement.  Excavate rectangular or trapezoidal patches, extending into adjacent sound pavement, unless otherwise indicated.  Cut excavation faces vertically.  Recompact existing unbound-aggregate base course to form new subgrade.
Tack Coat:  Apply uniformly to vertical surfaces abutting or projecting into new, hot-mix asphalt paving at a rate of 0.000251 Ton/Syd (0.06 Gal/Syd) per INDOT Design Manual latest edition, Chapter 17  -  Quantity Estimating.
Allow tack coat to cure undisturbed before applying hot-mix asphalt paving.
Avoid smearing or staining adjoining surfaces, appurtenances, and surroundings.  Remove spillages and clean affected surfaces.
NTS:  Retain Paragraph "D" if a single asphalt course, preferred by the asphalt institute, is proposed, retain Paragraph "E" if separate asphalt courses such as hot mix asphalt wedge and level to re-establish the roadway cross slope are required.
Patching Base:  Fill excavated pavement with hot-mix asphalt base mix and, while still hot, compact flush with adjacent surface.
Patching Surface:  Partially fill excavated pavements with hot-mix asphalt base mix and, while still hot, compact.  Cover asphalt base course with compacted, hot-mix surface layer finished flush with adjacent surfaces.
SURFACE PREPARATION
General:  Immediately before placing asphalt materials, remove loose and deleterious material from substrate surfaces.  Ensure that prepared subgrade is ready to receive paving.
Sweep loose granular particles from surface of unbound-aggregate base course.  Do not dislodge or disturb aggregate embedded in compacted surface of base course.
Tack Coat:  Apply uniformly to surfaces of existing pavement at a rate of 0.00251 Ton/Syd (0.06 gal/Syd) per INDOT Design Manual latest edition, Chapter 17  -  Quantity Estimating.
Allow tack coat to cure undisturbed before applying hot-mix asphalt paving.
Avoid smearing or staining adjoining surfaces, appurtenances, and surroundings.  Remove spillages and clean affected surfaces.
HOT-MIX ASPHALT PLACING
Machine place hot-mix asphalt on prepared surface, spread uniformly, and strike off.  Place asphalt mix by hand to areas inaccessible to equipment in a manner that prevents segregation of mix.  Place each course to required grade, cross section, and thickness when compacted.
Place hot-mix asphalt surface course in single lift.
Mix temperature at time of spreading shall not be less than 18 deg F the minimum mixing temperature listed on the approved design mix formula. 
Begin applying mix along centerline of crown for crowned sections and on high side of one-way slopes, unless otherwise indicated.
Regulate paver machine speed to obtain smooth, continuous surface free of pulls and tears in asphalt-paving mat.
Place paving in consecutive strips not less than 10 feet wide unless infill edge strips of a lesser width are required.
After first strip has been placed and rolled, place succeeding strips and extend rolling to overlap previous strips.  
Promptly correct surface irregularities in paving course behind paver.  Use suitable hand tools to remove excess material forming high spots.  Fill depressions with hot-mix asphalt to prevent segregation of mix; use suitable hand tools to smooth surface.
Paver speed shall not exceed 50 feet per minute. 
JOINTS
Construct joints to ensure a continuous bond between adjoining paving sections.  Construct joints free of depressions with same texture and smoothness as other sections of hot-mix asphalt course.
Clean contact surfaces and apply tack coat to joints.
Offset longitudinal joints, in successive courses, a minimum of 6 inches and located within 12 inches of the lane line, as applicable.
Offset transverse joints, in successive courses, a minimum of 24 inches.
Construct transverse joints as described in INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402.14.
Compact joints as soon as hot-mix asphalt will bear roller weight without excessive displacement.
Compact asphalt at joints to a density within 2 percent of specified course density.
COMPACTION
General:  Compaction shall conform to INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Section 402.15 for the minimum number of rollers and coverage.  Begin compaction as soon as placed hot-mix paving will bear roller weight without excessive displacement.  Compact hot-mix paving with hot, hand tampers or vibratory-plate compactors in areas inaccessible to rollers.
Complete compaction before mix temperature cools to 185 deg F.
Breakdown Rolling:  Complete breakdown or initial rolling immediately after rolling joints and outside edge.  Examine surface immediately after breakdown rolling for indicated crown, grade, and smoothness.  Correct laydown and rolling operations to comply with requirements.
Intermediate Rolling:  Begin intermediate rolling immediately after breakdown rolling while hot-mix asphalt is still hot enough to achieve specified density.  Continue rolling until hot-mix asphalt course has been uniformly compacted.
Finish Rolling:  Finish roll paved surfaces to remove roller marks while hot-mix asphalt is still at the highest temperature where the mixture does not exhibit any possibility for distortions.
Edge Shaping:  While surface is being compacted and finished, trim edges of pavement to proper alignment.  Bevel edges while asphalt is still hot; compact thoroughly.
Repairs:  Remove paved areas that are defective or contaminated with foreign materials and replace with fresh, hot-mix asphalt.  Compact by rolling to specified density and surface smoothness.
Protection:  After final rolling, do not permit vehicular traffic on pavement until it has cooled and hardened.
Erect barricades to protect paving from traffic until mixture has cooled sufficiently to prevent distortions.
INSTALLATION TOLERANCES
Thickness:  Compact each course to produce the thickness indicated within the following tolerances:
Base Course:  Plus or minus 1/2 inch.
Surface Course:  Plus 1/4 inch, no minus.
Surface Smoothness:  Compact each course to produce a surface smoothness within the following tolerances as determined by using a 10 foot straightedge applied transversely or longitudinally to paved areas:
Base Course:  1/4 inch. 
Surface Course:  1/8 inch 
Crowned Surfaces:  Test with crowned template centered and at right angle to crown.  Maximum allowable variance from template is 1/4 inch.
NTS:  Delete the following article if not applicable.
PAVEMENT OVERLAY
Preparation:
Remove fatty asphalt, grease drippings, dust, and other deleterious matter.
Surface Depressions: Fill with asphalt concrete mix, and thoroughly compact.
Damaged Areas: Remove broken or deteriorated asphalt concrete and patch as specified in Article Patching.
Portland Cement Concrete Joints: Remove joint filler to minimum 1/2 inch  below surface.
Application:
Tack Coat: As specified in this section.
Place and compact asphalt concrete as specified in Article Pavement Application.
Place first layer to include widening of pavement and leveling of irregularities in surface of existing pavement.
When leveling irregular surfaces and raising low areas, the actual compacted thickness of any one lift shall not exceed 2 inches.
Actual compacted thickness of intermittent areas of 120 square yards  or less may exceed 2 inches, but not 4 inches.
Final wearing layer shall be of uniform thickness, and meet grade and cross section as shown.
CHIP & SEAL PAVEMENT INSTALLATION
 Install depth at shown of compacted No. 53 stone base.  Install 1 inch of No.11 stone over 1.5 inches of #9 stone.  Stone shall be sealed with AE-90's Modified Sealing Asphalt at 0.40 gal/sy (oil) by way of meter bar with emulsion spray. 
 The area shall then be rolled with a rubber tire roller.
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) the required thickness of the temporary surface. Coordinate with entity with jurisdiction and with Section 32 13 00  - Rigid Pavement. Consider the construction season and type of road, sidewalk or driveway.
Note that INDOT Cold Mix Asphalt CMA is currently specified, edit Paragraph "A" below based on project specific requirements. 
RESTORING AND RESURFACING EXISTING ROADWAYS AND FACILITIES
  Place a (--1--) thick temporary CMA surface immediately after backfilling trenches in traveled roadways, driveways, sidewalks, or otherwise improved surfaces, which are to be retained for permanent use. The type of temporary surface shall be approved by the Engineer, or approved in accordance with authorized cut permits. Maintain the surface of the paved area over the trench in good and safe condition during progress of the entire Work, and promptly fill all depressions over and adjacent to the trench caused by settlement of backfilling. Immediately prior to constructing permanent pavement, remove and dispose of temporary surface. The permanent replacement pavement shall be in accordance with the Contract Documents. Permanent restoration shall be completed within thirty (30) days after installation of the utility, if in proper construction season. 
NTS:  Coordinate areas designated pavement in the specifications with the drawings.
Pavement, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, driveways or roadways disturbed or damaged by Contractor operations, except in areas designed as proposed Work, shall be restored by Contractor at his own expense to a condition equal to or greater than they were previous to the commencement of the Work and in accordance with applicable local and state highway Specifications or requirements
FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
Testing Agency:  Contractor will engage a qualified independent testing and inspecting agency to perform field tests and inspections and to prepare test reports.
Testing agency will conduct and interpret tests and state in each report whether tested Work complies with or deviates from specified requirements.
Additional testing and inspecting, at Contractor's expense, will be performed to determine compliance of replaced or additional Work with specified requirements.
Thickness:  In-place compacted thickness of hot-mix asphalt courses will be determined according to INDOT Standard Specifications latest edition, Sections 402.13 and 402.15.
Surface Smoothness:  Finished surface of each hot-mix asphalt course will be tested for compliance with smoothness tolerances.
Remove and replace or install additional hot-mix asphalt where test results or measurements indicate that it does not comply with specified requirements.
All required testing must be witnessed and approved by the Resident Project Representative, assigned by Owner.
DISPOSAL
Except for material indicated to be recycled, remove excavated materials from Project Site.
Do not allow excavated materials to accumulate on-site.
NTS:  The test frequencies shown are for continuous production of a full day paving operation of approximately 1,000 tons or more. Engineer may waive or modify testing requirements for small jobs where quality control is not as critical.
TESTING FREQUENCY
Quality Control Tests:
Asphalt Content, Aggregate Gradation: Once per every 500 Tons of mix or once every 4 hours, whichever is greater.
Mix Design Properties, Measured Maximum (Rice's) Specific Gravity: Once every 1,000 Tons or once every 8 hours, whichever is greater.
Density Tests: Once every 500 Tons of mix or once every 4 hours, whichever is greater.
PAVEMENT MARKINGS
All pavement markings removed or damaged during the course of construction shall be replaced.
.	Pavement Markings: Provide pavement markings where shown or indicated.
Preparation: 
Sweep surface with power broom supplemented by hand brooms to remove loose material and dirt. 
Do not begin marking bituminous concrete pavement until approved by Engineer. 
When reflective glass beads are required, mix with paint prior to paint application.
Application: 
Using mechanical equipment, provide uniform, straight edges in two separate coats.  Apply in accordance with paint manufacturer's recommendations.
     
+ + END OF SECTION + +
NTS:  The flowing information lists the asphalt pavement submittal requirements and includes a brief description to aid in verifying that the mix is in compliance. This information is based on INDOT Standard Specifications. Engineer is to delete this information from the project specific specification.   
1.Mixture course  -  
  Review the pavement course the submittal is for, options include: Surface, Intermediate or Base. 
2. HMA mix type  -  
	Based on INDOT standards, and specified by Engineer within this Section. Verify the submittal with the requirements in Article 2.7 Mixes of this Section.
3. Source of each asphalt material  -  
	INDOT certified hot mix asphalt producer and shall be listed on the most recent version of the INDOT list of certified hot mix asphalt producers
4. PG Binder - 
	Verify that the PG binder listed in the submittal matches with the following table.  Coordinate with the Mixture Type that specified in this Section. Table from Section 402.04 of the INDOT Standard Specifications.

  5. Mixture Designation and Maximum Particle Size  -  
	The finished depth of any course is required to be at least 2 times, but not more than 4 times the max particle size shown on the mix design. So the depth of any mix is 2 to 4 times the max top size aggregate which is always the next sieve size up. (Example: If it is a 9.5mm mixture designation then the max particle size should be 12.5mm)
6. Proposed gradation for each aggregate to be used in flexible paving  -  
	Ensure that the Design Mix Formula (DMF) gradation percentages are within the acceptable ranges listed in the table below. Use the gradations that match with the specified mixture designation (Example- If it is a 9.5mm mixture use the gradation percentages listed within the 9.5mm column).  

7. Indicate proportion of bituminous material from reclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP) - 
  Verify the submittal with the requirements listed in Article 2.2 Asphalt Materials, of this Section. 


 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 

3/21/08

CHAPTER 600 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL FOR
CONSTRUCTION SITES
SECTION 601 GENERAL
601.01
Purpose and
Background

The requirements contained in this Chapter are intended to prevent storm water pollution resulting
from soil erosion and sedimentation or from the mishandling of solid and hazardous waste.
Practices and measures included herein are intended to prevent foreign substances (e.g. sediment,
construction debris, chemicals) from entering a drainageway, whether intentionally or
accidentally, by machinery, wind, rain, runoff, or other means.
The major pollutant of concern during construction is sediment. Natural erosion processes are
accelerated at a project site by the construction process for a number of reasons including the loss
of surface vegetation and compaction damage to the soil structure itself, resulting in reduced
infiltration and increased surface runoff. Clearing and grading operations also expose subsoils
which are often poorly suited to re-establish vegetation, leading to long-term erosion problems.
Other pollutants of concern during the construction process are hazardous wastes or hydrocarbons
associated with construction equipment or processes. Examples include concrete wash-off, paints,
solvents, and hydrocarbons from refueling operations.

601.02
Abbreviations and
Definitions

Abbreviations
COE:

United States Army Corps of Engineers

IDEM:

Indiana Department of Environmental Management

IDNR:

Indiana Department of Natural Resources

INDOT:

Indiana Department of Transportation

NRCS:

USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service

USDA:

United States Department of Agriculture

Definitions
Construction
Activity:

Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing activities associated with the
construction of infrastructure and structures. This term does not include routine
ditch maintenance or minor landscaping projects.

600-1

3/21/08

Construction
Plan:

Construction
Site
Access:

Contractor
Or
Subcontractor:

A representation of a project site and all activities associated with the project.
The plan includes the location of the project site, buildings and other
infrastructure, grading activities, schedules for implementation and other
pertinent information related to the project site. A storm water pollution
prevention plan is a part of the construction plan.

A stabilized stone surface at all points of ingress or egress to a project site, for
the purpose of capturing and detaining sediment carried by tires of vehicles or
other equipment entering or exiting the project site.

An individual or company hired by the developer or the individual lot operator,
or their agent, to perform services on the project site.

Developer:

Any person or company having financial and operational control of construction
activities and project plans and specifications; or an owner of property who sells
or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots in a subdivision

Erosion:

The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice, or gravity.

Erosion and
Sediment
Control
Measure

Erosion and
Sediment
Control
System

Final
Stabilization:

A practice or a combination of practices, to control erosion and resulting
sedimentation.

The use of appropriate erosion and sediment control measures to minimize
sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the source and then as
necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being discharged from or within
a project site.

The establishment of permanent vegetative cover or the application of a
permanent non-erosive material to areas where all land disturbing activities have
been completed and no additional land disturbing activities are planned under
the current permit.

600-2

3/21/08

Grading:
Impervious
Surface:

Individual
Building Lot:

Individual
Lot Operator:

The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or elevation.

Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which prevent the infiltration of storm
water into the soil.

A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel development.

A person who has financial control of construction activities for an individual
building lot and is required to comply with the terms of this chapter

Land Disturbing
Activity:
Any manmade change of the land surface, including removing vegetative cover
that exposes the underlying soil, excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.

Larger Common
Plan of
Development
Or Sale:
A plan, undertaken by a single project site owner or a group of project site
owners acting in concert, to offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is
contiguous, or is known, designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit
or by a common name, such land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or
lease as part of a larger common plan. The term also includes phased or other
construction activity by a single entity for its own use.

Measurable
Storm Event:

A precipitation event that results in a total measured precipitation accumulation
equal to, or greater than, one-half (0.5) inch of rainfall.

MS4 Area:

A land area comprising one (1) or more places that receives coverage under one
(1) NPDES storm water permit regulated by 327 IAC 15-13 or 327 IAC 5-46(a)(3) and 327 IAC 5-4-6(a)(4).

MS4 Operator:

The person responsible for development, implementation, or enforcement of the
minimum control measures for a designated MS4 area regulated under 327 IAC
15-13.

Municipal
Separate Storm
Sewer System
(MS4):

The same meaning set forth at 327 IAC 15-13-5(42).

600-3

3/21/08

Peak Discharge: The maximum rate of flow during a storm, usually in reference to a specific
design storm event.

Permanent
Stabilization:

Phasing of
Construction:

Project Site
Owner:

The establishment, at a uniform density of seventy percent (70%) across the
disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent nonerosive material that will
ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or other movement.

Sequential development of smaller portions of a large project site, stabilizing
each portion before beginning land disturbance on subsequent portions, to
minimize exposure of disturbed land to erosion.

The person required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including the
developer or the person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities and project plan and specifications, including the ability
to make modifications to those plans and specifications.

Sediment:

Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension, is being
transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, gravity, or
ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.

Sedimentation:

The settling and accumulation of unconsolidated sediment carried by storm
water run-off.

Soil:

The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the surface of the earth that
serves as the natural medium for the growth of plants.

Soil and Water
Conservation
District
(SWCD):

A political subdivision established under IC 14-32.

Storm water
Pollution
Prevention Plan
(SWPPP):
A plan developed to minimize the impact of storm water pollutants resulting
from construction activities.

Storm Water
Quality
Measure:

A practice, or a combination of practices, to control or minimize pollutants
associated with storm water run-off.

600-4

3/21/08

Strip
Development:

Subdivision:

Temporary
Stabilization:

Tracking:

Trained
Individual:

A multi-lot project where building lots front on an existing road.

Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots, whether contiguous
or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a
larger common plan of development or sale.

The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to erosion, sliding, or other
movement. The term includes vegetative cover, anchored mulch, or other nonerosive material applied at a uniform density of seventy percent (70%) across
the disturbed area.

The deposition of soil that is transported from one (1) location to another by
tires, tracks of vehicles, or other equipment.

An individual who is trained and experienced in the principles of storm water
quality, including erosion and sediment control and is certified by the Hamilton
County SWCD, registered professional or is a Certified Professional in Erosion
and Sediment Control.

SECTION 602 BASIC POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

602.01
Applicability and
Exemptions

The City of Carmel will require a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), which
includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials handling procedures, to be
submitted as part of the construction plans and specifications. Any project located within the City
of Carmel which falls under the jurisdictional authority of the City of Carmel and includes the
disturbance of ¼ acre or more of land due to clearing, grading, excavation, and other land
disturbing activities is subject to the requirements of this Chapter. This includes both new
development and re-development. This chapter also applies to disturbances that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale within the area under the jurisdictional authority of the
City of Carmel. Section 602.03 of this Chapter provides guidelines for calculating land
disturbance. Projects meeting the coverage requirements of 327 IAC 15-5 (Rule 5) shall also be in
compliance with 327 IAC 15-5.
All projects disturbing ¼ acre or more of land are required to have a Stormwater Management
Permit before beginning any grading or land disturbance activity. Plans shall be approved by all
applicable governing entities prior to the issuance of the permit. An individual lot located within a
larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger permitted project site, and the
individual lot operator must comply with the terms and conditions of the Stormwater Management
Permit approved for the larger project site. The storm water permit application for the larger
project site must include typical detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual
building lots.

600-5

3/21/08

All persons engaging in construction and land disturbing activities on a permitted project site must
comply with the requirements of this Chapter and Carmel City Code.

602.02
Policy on Storm
Water Pollution
Prevention

Effective storm water pollution prevention on construction sites is dependent on a combination of
preventing movement of soil from its original position (erosion control), intercepting displaced
soil prior to entering a waterbody (sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The
project site owner must submit to the City of Carmel a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment
control plans as well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and construction
sequencing. The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities and should be
considered in the preparation of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan within the City of
Carmel.
A. Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development that fits
the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas with steep
slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours should be
followed as closely as possible.
B. Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank) to
watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or
likely to be left inactive for 15 days or more must be temporarily or
permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season to reduce
erosion potential.
C. All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so that the
smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest practical period
of time during development.
D. The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to reduce
erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities will
not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included in the Storm Water Technical
Standards Manual.
E. Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site shall
be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to minimize
sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at all points
of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
F.

Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or unused
building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material, fuels and
petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes,
wastewater, concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried
from a project site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete
truck washout is permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the
site. Wastes and unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of
in accordance with all applicable State statutes and regulations. Proper
storage and handling of materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill
prevention and cleanup measures (including having spill response equipment

600-6

3/21/08

on-site) shall be implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to
contaminate surface or ground water or degrade soil quality.
G. Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated sediment that
is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated sediment shall
not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall be
redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
H. Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged directly into a
well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and released to adjacent
property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem to the adjacent
property owner.
I.

Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from pollutants
associated with storm water runoff.

602.03
Other Agency
Permits

The City is not responsible for verifying if permits are required by the state or by other agencies
that may have jurisdiction. For work within a watercourse located on or adjacent to a project
within the City, or for a watercourse that may potentially be impacted by a project within the City,
prior to plan approval, the project site owner shall provide a copy of all State and/or Federal
permits or written documentation from the State that such work in or adjacent to a watercourse is
the jurisdiction of the MS4. If it is demonstrated in writing from the State or other agency, that the
State or other agency does not have jurisdiction over certain work within or adjacent to a
watercourse, then the City requires, upon completion of work, the area within or adjacent to the
watercourse shall, at a minimum, be stabilized within one week of completion of work, or before
the next anticipated measurable storm event, whichever comes first.

602.04
Calculating Total
Area of Land
Disturbance

In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of determining applicability of
this Chapter to the project, the following guidelines should be used:
A. Off-site construction activities that provide services (for example, road extensions,
sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be
considered as a part of the total land disturbance calculation for the project site,
when the activity is under the control of the project site owner.
B. Strip developments will be considered as one (1) project site and must comply
with this Chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all individual lots is
less than 1/4 acre and is not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
C. To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by the City of Carmel, the area
of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of land disturbance
for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas, and the expected
total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the following:
i.

ii.

For a single-family residential project site where the lots are one-half
(0.5) acre or more, one-half (0.5) acre of land disturbance must be used
as the expected lot disturbance.
For a single-family residential project site where the lots are less than
one half (0.5) acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.

600-7

3/21/08

iii.

602.05
Common Erosion
and Sediment
Control Practices

To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects sites, such as
industrial and commercial project sites, a minimum of one (1) acre of
land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless
the lots are less than one (1) acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.

All erosion control and storm water pollution prevention measures required to comply with the
City of Carmel’s Ordinance shall meet the design criteria, standards, and specifications similar to
or the same as those outlined in the latest editions of the “Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual”
and “Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas”. Table 602-1 lists some of the
more common and effective practices for preventing storm water pollution from construction sites.
Details of each practice can be found in the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, the Indiana
Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas, or in Appendix 602-1. These practices
should be used to protect every potential pollution pathway to storm water conveyances.
An approved list of acceptable storm water inlet protection may be obtained from the City of
Carmel Engineering Department. Inlet protection should be cleaned at least every two weeks.
Pond banks and inlet/outlet pipes shall be stabilized within one week of pond installation,
including, at a minimum, erosion control blankets on the slopes of the pond extending five feet
past the top of bank and appropriate size rock placed around the inlet/outlet pipe per the approved
storm water pollution prevention plans.
Streets in active construction areas should be swept at least twice per week.

602.06
Individual Building
Lot Controls

A standard erosion control plan for individual lots is provided as Exhibit 602-1. Individual lot
operators are responsible for ensuring all storm water leaving the lot is treated. The standard plan
includes perimeter silt fence, a stabilized construction entrance, curb inlet protection, drop inlet
protection, stockpile containment, stabilized drainage swales, downspout extensions, temporary
seeding and mulching, and permanent vegetation. Every relevant measure shall be installed at
each individual building lot site.
There will be situations where perimeter protection may be needed between two lots. It is the
Individual Lot Operator’s responsibility to adapt and overcome any changes or deficiencies that
may develop during the building process. Failure to do so can result in damage to adjacent
property, damage to the City's storm sewer system, and contribute to storm water pollution.
Construction sequence on individual building lots shall be as follows:
1. Clearly delineate areas of trees, shrubs, and vegetation that are to be
undisturbed. To prevent root damage, the areas delineated for tree protection
should be at least the same diameter as the crown.
2. Ensure that all inlet protection is in place and functioning for both area inlets
and curb inlets along the property frontage.
3. Install perimeter silt fence at construction limits. Position the fence to intercept
runoff prior to leaving the lot or entering drainage swales.
4. Avoid disturbing drainage swales. Install BMP’s to protect any drainage swales
or any part of an established or existing drainage system adjacent to the
property. If drainage swales are bare, install erosion control blankets or sod to
immediately stabilize.
5. Install gravel construction entrance that extends from the street to the building
pad. Geotextile fabric shall be placed under the stone on the graded surface.

600-8

3/21/08

6.
7.

Perform primary grading operations.
Contain erosion from any soil stockpiles created on-site with silt fence around
the base.
8. Establish temporary seeding and straw mulch on disturbed areas.
9. Construct the home and install utilities.
10. Install downspout extenders once the roof and gutters have been constructed.
Extenders should outlet to a stabilized area.
11. Re-seed any areas disturbed by construction and utilities installation with
temporary seed mix within 3 days of completion of disturbance.
12. Grade the site to final elevations and stabilize. Add topsoil as needed to
minimize erosion of underlying soil and to quickly establish grass. Perimeter
protection may be temporarily removed in order to complete final grading but
must be replaced or re-installed each evening or until the lot is stabilized. The
lot is considered stabilized when it has been fully sodded or, when using seed,
has reached 75% cover through mature growth or the addition of mulch.
All erosion and sediment control measures must be properly maintained throughout construction.
The individual lot operator is responsible for cleaning the streets along the lot property frontage at
the end of every work day. Temporary and permanent seeding should be watered as needed until
established.

602.07
Inspection,
Maintenance,
Record
Keeping, and
Reporting

Following approval of the Stormwater Management Permit by the City of Carmel and
commencement of construction activities, the City of Carmel has the authority to conduct
inspections of the site to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site owner to ensure the storm
water pollution prevention plan is working effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to the City
of Carmel, shall perform a written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day
following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable storm events within a given
week, the site should be monitored at least once in that week. Weekly inspections by the trained
individual shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a “verified” copy of the
Notice of Termination has been issued. The trained individual should look at the maintenance of
existing storm water pollution prevention measures, including erosion and sediment control
measures, drainage structures, and construction materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure
they are functioning properly. The trained individual should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the storm water pollution prevention plan, necessary to
remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations. A standard form to record the
self-monitoring/inspection results is provided as Exhibit 602-2.
The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the individual performing the
evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems identified at the project site, and details of
maintenance, additional measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
The storm water pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline for storm water quality, but
should not be interpreted to be the only basis for implementation of storm water quality measures
for a project site. The project site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this
Chapter, all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted storm water runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified storm water quality measures should be
implemented.
All evaluation reports for the project site shall be submitted to the City of Carmel Engineering
Department, in an organized fashion, within forty-eight (48) hours of the inspection, Attn: Storm
Water Administrator.

600-9

3/21/08

Practice
No.
1
2
3

BMP Description

5
6

Site Assessment
Construction Sequencing
Tree Preservation and Protection
Temporary Gravel Construction
Entrance Pad
Wheel Wash
Silt Fence

7

Surface Roughening

8

Temporary Seeding

9

Mulching
Erosion Control Blanket
(Surface)

4

10

Applicability
All sites
All sites
Nearly all sites

1
CN - 101
1

All sites
All sites
Small drainage areas
Sites with slopes that are to be stabilized with
vegetation
Areas of bare soil where additional work is not
scheduled to be performed for a minimum of 15 days
Temporary surface stabilization

1
CN - 102
1
1
1
1

Temporary surface stabilization, anchor for mulch

Up-slope and down-slope sides of construction site,
above disturbed slopes within construction site
12
Rock Check Dam
2 acres maximum contributing drainage area
13
Temporary Slope Drain
Sites with cut or fill slopes
14
Straw Bale Dam
Small drainage areas
15
Fabric Drop Inlet Protection
1 acre maximum contributing drainage area
16
Basket Curb Inlet Protection
1 acre maximum contributing drainage area
17
Sandbag Curb Inlet Protection
1 acre maximum contributing drainage area
18
Temporary Sediment Trap
5 acre maximum contributing drainage area
19
Temporary Sediment Basin
30 acre maximum contributing drainage area
20
Dewatering Structure
Sites requiring dewatering
21
Dust Control
All sites
22
Spill Prevention and Control
All sites
23
Solid Waste Management
All sites
24
Hazardous Waste Management
All sites
Fact sheet Location: 1. Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual
11

Fact Sheet

1

Temporary Diversion

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
CN - 103
1
CN - 104
CN - 105
CN - 106

TABLE 602-1: Common Storm Water Pollution Control Practices for Construction Sites

600-10

3/21/08

Exhibit 602-1.: Individual Building Lot Typical Erosion & Sediment Control Plan and Certification

600-11

Date: _____________________________________
Project: ___________________________________
Inspected by: _______________________________





Type of Inspection:
Scheduled Weekly
Rain Event
Weather at time of Inspection: _____________________________________________________________

CONSTRUCTION SITE INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE LOG
(To be completed by Property Owner or Agent)
Yes No N/A
1. Is the site information posted at the entrance?
2. Are all necessary permits attained and special provisions being

implemented?
3. Is a construction entrance installed and functioning properly?
4. Are construction staging & parking areas restricted to areas designated on
5.
6.
7.
8.

the plans?
Are public and private streets clean of sediment, debris and mud?
Are appropriate practices installed where storm water leaves the site?
Are all discharge points (outfalls) free of erosion or sediment transport?
Has all silt fence been installed properly and being maintained?
(entrenched - upright - fabric not torn - terminated to higher ground - properly
joined at ends)

9. Are sediment basins & traps installed according to plan & pipe or rock

spillways functional?
10. Are other sediment control barriers in place and functioning properly?
11. Is the earthwork for erosion control practices properly graded, seeded

and/or mulched?
12. Are diversion swales and/or waterbars installed to plan & protected?
13. Do perimeter practices have adequate capacity & do they need to be

cleaned out?
14. Is inlet protection installed properly on all functioning inlets & being

maintained?
15. Is catch basin insert protection installed where required & being

maintained?
16. Have swales and ditches been stabilized or protected?
17. Are storm water outlets adequately stabilized?
18. Has temporary stabilization of disturbed ground been addressed?

(dormant for 15 days?)
19. Is permanent stabilization of disturbed ground progressing on all
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

completed areas?
Has hard or soft armoring been installed where natural vegetation will
erode?
Do water pumping operations have a protected outlet and discharge clear
water?
Are all dewatering structures functioning properly?
Is a designated equipment washout area established, clearly marked and
being utilized?
Is solid waste properly contained & a stable access provided to the
storage & pickup area?
Are fuel tanks and other hazardous materials safely stored and protected?
Is spill response equipment on-site and easily accessible?
Are temporary soil stockpiles in approved areas & properly protected?

If you answered “no” to any of the above questions, describe any corrective action which must be taken to remedy
the problem and when the corrective actions are completed.

Corrective Action Log
Date

Location

Correction Needed

Date
Completed Initials

Notes

Notes:

I certify under penalty of law that this document was completed to the best of my knowledge and
belief on the date listed below per my signature. I am aware that there are significant penalties
for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations.
Signature of Inspector: ________________________________________Date: ______________________

APPENDIX 602-1
CONSTRUCTION BMP FACT SHEETS

BMP CN – 101
SEQUENCING

BMP CN – 101
CONSTRUCTION
CONSTRUCTION SEQUENCING
DESCRIPTION

The construction sequence schedule is an orderly listing of all major land-disturbing
activities together with the necessary erosion and sedimentation control measures
planned for the project. This type of schedule guides the contractor on work to be done
before other work is started so that serious erosion and sedimentation problems can be
avoided. Sequencing a construction project reduces the amount and duration of soil
exposed to erosion by wind, rain, runoff, and vehicle tracking.
ADVANTAGE
1.

Following a specified work schedule that coordinates the timing of land-disturbing
activities and the installation of control measures is perhaps the most cost-effective
way of controlling erosion during construction. The removal of surface ground
cover leaves a site vulnerable to accelerated erosion. Construction procedures that
limit land clearing, provide timely installation of erosion and sedimentation controls,
and restore protective cover quickly can significantly reduce the erosion potential of
a site.

DESIGN CRITERIA
1.
2.

Avoid rainy periods.
Schedule projects to disturb only small portions of the site at any one time.
Complete grading as soon as possible. Immediately stabilize the disturbed portion
before grading the next portion. Practice staged seeding in order to revegetate cut
and fill slopes as the work progresses.

REFERENCE
City of Tacoma, Surface Water Management Manual, 2003 or later

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-101-1

April 2004

BMP CN – 102
WHEEL WASH

BMP CN – 102
WHEEL WASH

DESCRIPTION
When a stabilized construction entrance is not preventing sediment from being tracked
onto pavement, a wheel wash may be installed. Wheel washing is generally an effective
BMP when installed with careful attention to topography. For example, a wheel wash can
be detrimental if installed at the top of a slope abutting a right-of-way where the water
from the dripping truck can run unimpeded into the street. Pressure washing combined
with an adequately sized and surfaced pad with direct drainage to a large 10-foot x 10foot sump can be very effective.
ADVANTAGES
1.

Wheel washes reduce the amount of sediment transported onto paved roads by
motor vehicles.

DESIGN CRITERIA
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

9.
10.
11.
12.

Suggested details are shown in Figure CN-102-A. The City of Carmel may allow
other designs.
A minimum of 6 inches of asphalt treated base (ATB) over crushed base material
or 8 inches over a good subgrade is recommended to pave the wheel wash.
Use a low clearance truck to test the wheel wash before paving. Either a belly
dump or lowboy will work well to test clearance.
Keep the water level from 12 to 14 inches deep to avoid damage to truck hubs and
filling the truck tongues with water.
Midpoint spray nozzles are only needed in extremely muddy conditions.
Wheel wash systems should be designed with a small grade change, 6 to 12
inches for a 10-foot-wide pond, to allow sediment to flow to the low side of pond to
help prevent re-suspension of sediment.
A drainpipe with a 2- to 3-foot riser should be installed on the low side of the pond
to allow for easy cleaning and refilling.
Polymers may be used to promote coagulation and flocculation in a closed-loop
system. Polyacrylamide (PAM) added to the wheel wash water at a rate of 0.25 0.5 pounds per 1,000 gallons of water increases effectiveness and reduces
cleanup time.
If PAM is already being used for dust or erosion control and is being applied by a
water truck, the same truck can be used to change the wash water.
The wheel wash should start out the day with fresh water. The wash water should
be changed a minimum of once per day.
On large earthwork jobs where more than 10-20 trucks per hour are expected, the
wash water will need to be changed more often.
Wheel wash or tire bath wastewater shall be discharged to a separate on-site
treatment system, such as closed-loop recirculation or land application, or to the
sanitary sewer with proper local sewer utility approval.

REFERENCE
City of Tacoma, Surface Water Management Manual, 2003 or later
Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-102-2

April 2004

5
4
2

3

9

7

8

1

6

Section A-A
NTS

Figure CN-102-A

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-102-2

April 2004

BMP CN – 103
DEWATERING STRUCTURE
BMP CN – 103
DESCRIPTION
Water which is pumped from a construction site usually contains a large amount of
sediment. A dewatering structure is designed to remove the sediment before water is
released off-site.
This practice includes several types of dewatering structures which have different
applications dependent upon site conditions and types of operation. Other innovative
techniques for accomplishing the same purpose are encouraged, but only after specific
plans and details are submitted to and approved by the City of Carmel.
DESIGN CRITERIA
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

7.

A dewatering structure must be sized (and operated) to allow pumped water to flow
through the filtering device without overtopping the structure.
Material from any required excavation shall be stored in an area and protected in a
manner that will prevent sediments from eroding and moving off-site.
An excavated basin (applicable to “Straw Bale/Silt Fence Pit”) may be lined with
filter fabric to help reduce scour and to prevent the inclusion of soil from within the
structure.
Design criteria more specific to each particular dewatering device can be found in
Figures CN-103-A through CN-103-C.
A dewatering structure may not be needed if there is a well-stabilized, vegetated area
onsite to which water may be discharged. The area must be stabilized so that it can
filter sediment and at the same time withstand the velocity of the discharged water
without eroding. A minimum filtering length of 75 feet must be available in order for
such a method to be feasible.
The filtering devices must be inspected frequently and repaired or replaced once
the sediment build-up prevents the structure from functioning as designed.
The accumulated sediment which is removed from a dewatering device must be
spread on-site and stabilized or disposed of at an approved disposal site as per
approved plan.
Portable Sediment Tank (see Figure CN103-A)
The structure may be constructed with steel drums, sturdy wood or other
material suitable for handling the pressure exerted by the volume of water.
•
Sediment tanks will have a minimum depth of 2 ft.
•
The sediment tank shall be located for easy clean-out and disposal of the
trapped sediment and to minimize the interference with construction activities.
•
The following formula shall be used to determine the storage volume of the
sediment tank:
Pump discharge (gallons/min.) x 16 = cubic feet of storage required
•
Once the water level nears the top of the tank, the pump must be shut off
while the tank drains and additional capacity is made available.
•
The tank shall be designed to allow for emergency flow over top of the tank.
Clean-out of the tank is required once one-third of the original capacity is
depleted due to sediment accumulation. The tank shall be clearly marked
showing the clean-out point.
•

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-1

April 2004

Filter Box (see Figure CN-103-B)
•
The box selected should be made of steel, sturdy wood or other materials
suitable to handle the pressure requirements imposed by the volume of
water. Normally readily available 55 gallon drums welded top to bottom will
suffice in most cases.
•
Bottom of the box shall be made porous by drilling holes (or some other
method).
•
Coarse aggregate shall be placed over the holes at a minimum depth of 12
inches, metal “hardware” cloth may need to be placed between the aggregate
and the holes if holes are drilled larger than the majority of the stone.
•
As a result of the fast rate of flow of sediment-laden water through the
aggregate, the effluent must be directed over a well-vegetated strip of at least
50 feet after Ieaving the base of the filter box.
•
The box shall be sized as follows:
Pump discharge (gallons/min.) x 16 = cubic feet of storage required
•
Once the water level nears the top of the box, the pump must be shut off
while the box drains and additional capacity is made available.
•
The box shall be designed/constructed to allow for emergency flow over the
top of this box.
•
Clean-out of the box is required once one-third of the original capacity is
depleted due to sediment accumulation. The tank shall be clearly marked
showing the clean-out point.
•
If the stone filter does become clogged with sediment so that it no longer
adequately performs its function, the stones must be pulled away from the
inlet, cleaned and replaced.
•
Using a filter box only allows for minimal settling time for sediment particles;
therefore, it should only be used when site conditions restrict the use of the
other methods.
Straw Bale/Silt Fence Pit (see Figure CN-103-C)
Measure shall consist of straw bales, silt fence, a stone outlet (a combination
of riprap and aggregate) and a wet storage pit oriented as shown in Figure
CN-103-C.
•
The structure must have a capacity which is dictated by the following formula:
Pump discharge (gallons/min.) x 16 = cubic feet of storage required
•
In calculating the capacity, one should include the volume available from the
floor of the excavation to the crest of the stone weir.
•
In any case, the excavated area should be a minimum of 3 feet below the
base of the perimeter measures (straw bales or silt fence).
•
The perimeter measures must be installed as per the guidelines found in fact
sheets associated with STRAW BALE BARRIER and SILT FENCE BMPs.
•
Once the water level nears the crest of the stone weir (emergency overflow),
the pump must be shut off while the structure drains down to the elevation of
the wet storage.
•
The wet storage pit may be dewatered only after a minimum of 6 hours of
sediment settling time. This effluent should be pumped across a well
vegetated area or through a silt fence prior to entering a watercourse.
•
Once the wet storage area becomes filled to one-half of the, excavated
depth, accumulated sediment shall be removed and properly disposed of.
•

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-2

April 2004

•

Once the device has been removed, ground contours will be returned to
original condition.

REFERENCE
United States Army Corps of Engineers, Handbook for the Preparation of Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plans for Construction Activities, 1997 or later

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-3

April 2004

Figure CN-103-A
Portable Sediment Tank

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-4

April 2004

Figure CN-103-B
Filter Box

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-5

April 2004

Figure CN-103-C
Straw Bale/Silt Fence Pit

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-103-6

April 2004

BMP CN – 104
SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL

BMP CN – 104
SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL
DESCRIPTION

These procedures and practices are implemented to prevent and control spills in a
manner that minimizes or prevents the discharge of spilled material to the drainage
system or watercourses.
This best management practice (BMP) applies to all construction projects. Spill control
procedures are implemented anytime chemicals and/or hazardous substances are
stored. Substances may include, but are not limited to:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Soil stabilizers/binders
Dust Palliatives
Herbicides
Growth inhibitors
Fertilizers
Deicing/anti-icing chemicals
Fuels
Lubricants
Other petroleum distillates

To the extent that the work can be accomplished safely, spills of oil, petroleum products,
sanitary and septic wastes, and substances listed under 40 Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR) parts 110, 117, and 302 shall be contained and cleaned up immediately.

LIMITATIONS
1.
2.

This BMP only applies to spills caused by the contractor.
Procedures and practices presented in this BMP are general. Contractor shall
identify appropriate practices for the specific materials used or stored on-site in
advance of their arrival at the site.

DESIGN CRITERIA
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

To the extent that it doesn’t compromise clean up activities, spills shall be covered
and protected from storm water runoff during rainfall.
Spills shall not be buried or washed with water.
Used clean up materials, contaminated materials, and recovered spill material that
is no longer suitable for the intended purpose shall be stored and disposed of in
conformance with BMP CN-106: Hazardous Waste Management.
Water used for cleaning and decontamination shall not be allowed to enter storm
drains or watercourses and shall be collected and disposed of in accordance with
BMP CN-106: Hazardous Waste Management.
Water overflow or minor water spillage shall be contained and shall not be allowed
to discharge into drainage facilities or watercourses.

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-104-1

April 2004

6.

7.

8.
9.

Proper storage, clean-up and spill reporting instruction for hazardous materials
stored or used on the project site shall be posted at all times in an open,
conspicuous and accessible location.
Waste storage areas shall be kept clean, well organized and equipped with ample
clean-up supplies as appropriate for the materials being stored. Perimeter
controls, containment structures, covers and liners shall be repaired or replaced as
needed to maintain proper function.
Verify weekly that spill control and clean up materials are located near material
storage, unloading, and use areas.
Update spill prevention and control plans and stock appropriate clean-up materials
whenever changes occur in the types of chemicals used or stored onsite.
Cleanup and Storage Procedures for Minor Spills
•
Minor spills typically involve small quantities of oil, gasoline, paint, etc., which
can be controlled by the first responder at the discovery of the spill.
•
Use absorbent materials on small spills rather than hosing down or burying the
spill.
•
Remove the absorbent materials promptly and dispose of properly.
•
The practice commonly followed for a minor spill is:
o Contain the spread of the spill.
o Recover spilled materials.
o Clean the contaminated area and/or properly dispose of contaminated
materials.
Cleanup and Storage Procedures for Semi-Significant Spills
•
Semi-significant spills still can be controlled by the first responder along with
the aid of other personnel such as laborers and the foreman, etc. This
response may require the cessation of all other activities.
•
Clean up spills immediately:
•
Notify the project foreman immediately. The foreman shall notify the City of
Carmel Emergency Management Agency’s Hazardous Materials Response
Team.
•
Contain spread of the spill.
•
If the spill occurs on paved or impermeable surfaces, clean up using "dry"
methods (absorbent materials, cat litter and/or rags). Contain the spill by
encircling with absorbent materials and do not let the spill spread widely.
•
If the spill occurs in dirt areas, immediately contain the spill by constructing an
earthen dike. Dig up and properly dispose of contaminated soil.
•
If the spill occurs during rain, cover spill with tarps or other material to prevent
contaminating runoff.
Cleanup and Storage Procedures for Significant/Hazardous Spills
•
For significant or hazardous spills that cannot be controlled by personnel in
immediate vicinity, notify the local emergency response by dialing 911.
addition to 911, the contractor will notify the proper county officials. It is
contractor's responsibility to have all emergency phone numbers at
construction site.

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-104-2

the
In
the
the

April 2004

•

•
•

For spills of federal reportable quantities, in conformance with the requirements
in 40 CFR parts 110,119, and 302, the contractor shall notify the National
Response Center at (800) 424-8802.
Notification shall first be made by telephone and followed up with a written
report.
The services of a spills contractor or a Haz-Mat team shall be obtained
immediately. Construction personnel shall not attempt to clean up the spill until
the appropriate and qualified personnel have arrived at the job site.

REFERENCE
California Department of Transportation, Construction Site BMP Manual, 2000 or later

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-104-3

April 2004

BMP CN – 105
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT

BMP CN – 105
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
DESCRIPTION

Solid waste management procedures and practices are designed to minimize or
eliminate the discharge of pollutants to the drainage system or to watercourses as a
result of the creation, stockpiling, or removal of construction site wastes.
Solid waste management procedures and practices are implemented on all construction
projects that generate solid wastes.
Solid wastes include but are not limited to:
1.
2.
3.

Construction wastes including brick, mortar, timber, steel and metal scraps,
sawdust, pipe and electrical cuttings, non-hazardous equipment parts, styrofoam
and other materials used to transport and package construction materials.
Landscaping wastes, including vegetative material, plant containers, and
packaging materials.
Litter, including food containers, beverage cans, coffee cups, paper bags, plastic
wrappers, and smoking materials, including litter generated by the public.

LIMITATIONS
1.

Temporary stockpiling of certain construction wastes may not necessitate stringent
drainage related controls during the non-rainy season.

DESIGN CRITERIA
1. Dumpsters of sufficient size and number shall be provided to contain the solid waste
generated by the project and properly serviced.
2. Littering on the project site shall be prohibited.
3. To prevent clogging of the storm drainage system, litter and debris removal from
drainage grates, trash racks, and ditch lines shall be a priority.
4. Trash receptacles with lids shall be provided in the contractor’s yard, field trailer
areas, and at locations where workers congregate for lunch and break periods.
5. Construction debris and litter from work areas within the construction limits of the
project site shall be collected and placed in watertight dumpsters at least weekly
regardless of whether the litter was generated by the contractor, the public, or
others. Collected litter and debris shall not be placed in or next to drain inlets,
storm water drainage systems or watercourses.
6. Full dumpsters shall be removed from the project site and the contents shall be
disposed of, off-site, in an appropriate manner.
7. Litter stored in collection areas and containers shall be handled and disposed of by
trash hauling contractors.
8. Construction debris and waste shall be removed from the site at least every two
weeks.
9. Storm water run-off shall be prevented from contacting stored solid waste through
the use of berms, dikes, or other temporary diversion structures or through the use
of measures to elevate waste from site surfaces.

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-105-2

April 2004

10. Except during fair weather, construction and landscaping waste not stored in
watertight dumpsters shall be securely covered from wind and rain by covering the
waste with tarps, plastic sheeting, or equivalent.
11. Solid waste storage areas shall be located at least 50 ft from drainage facilities and
watercourses and shall not be located in areas prone to flooding or ponding.
12. Dumpster washout on the project site is not allowed.
13. Notify trash hauling contractors that only watertight dumpsters are acceptable for use
on-site.
14. Plan for additional containers during the demolition phase of construction.
15. Plan for more frequent pickup during the demolition phase of construction.
16. Construction waste shall be stored in a designated area. Access to the designated
area shall either be well vegetated ground, a concrete or asphalt road or drive, or a
gravel construction entrance, to avoid mud tracking by trash hauling contractors.
17. Segregate potentially hazardous waste from non-hazardous construction site waste.
18. Keep the site clean of litter debris.
19. Make sure that toxic liquid wastes (e.g., used oils, solvents, and paints) and
chemicals (e.g., acids, pesticides, additives, curing compounds) are not disposed
of in dumpsters designated for construction debris.
20. For disposal of hazardous waste, see BMP CN-106: Hazardous Waste Management.
Have hazardous waste hauled to an appropriate disposal and/or recycling facility.
21. Salvage or recycle useful vegetation debris, packaging and/or surplus building
materials when practical. For example, trees and shrubs from land clearing can be
converted into wood chips, then used as mulch on graded areas. Wood pallets,
cardboard boxes, and construction scraps can also be recycled.
22.
Prohibit littering by employees, subcontractors, and visitors.
23.
Wherever possible, minimize production of solid waste materials.
REFERENCE
California Department of Transportation, Construction Site BMP Manual, 2000 or later

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-105-2

April 2004

BMP CN – 106
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT

BMP CN – 106
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
DESCRIPTION

These are procedures and practices to minimize or eliminate the discharge of pollutants
from construction site hazardous waste to the storm drain systems or to watercourses.
This best management practice (BMP) applies to all construction projects.
Hazardous waste management practices are implemented on construction projects that
generate waste from the use of:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Petroleum Products,
Asphalt Products,
Concrete Curing Compounds,
Pesticides,
Acids,
Paints,
Stains,
Solvents,
Wood Preservatives,
Roofing Tar, or
Any materials deemed a hazardous waste in 40 CFR Parts 110, 117, 261, or
302.

DESIGN CRITERIA
Storage Procedures
1.
Wastes shall be stored in sealed containers constructed of a suitable material and
shall be labeled as required by 49 CFR Parts 172,173, 178, and 179.
2.
All hazardous waste shall be stored, transported, and disposed as required in 49
CFR 261-263.
3.
Waste containers shall be stored in temporary containment facilities that shall
comply with the following requirements:
•
Temporary containment facility shall provide for a spill containment volume
able to contain precipitation from a 24-hour, 25 year storm event, plus the
greater of 10% of the aggregate volume of all containers or 100% of the
capacity of the largest tank within its boundary, whichever is greater.
•
Temporary containment facility shall be impervious to the materials stored
there for a minimum contact time of 72 hours.
•
Temporary containment facilities shall be maintained free of accumulated
rainwater and spills. In the event of spills or leaks accumulated rainwater and
spills shall be placed into drums after each rainfall. These liquids shall be
handled as a hazardous waste unless testing determines them to be nonhazardous. Non-hazardous liquids shall be sent to an approved disposal site.
•
Sufficient separation shall be provided between stored containers to allow for
spill cleanup and emergency response access.
•
Incompatible materials, such as chlorine and ammonia, shall not be stored in
the same temporary containment facility.

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-106-1

April 2004

Throughout the rainy season, temporary containment facilities shall be covered
during non-working days, and prior to rain events. Covered facilities may
include use of plastic tarps for small facilities or constructed roofs with
overhangs. A storage facility having a solid cover and sides is preferred to a
temporary tarp. Storage facilities shall be equipped with adequate ventilation.
Drums shall not be overfilled and wastes shall not be mixed.
Unless watertight, containers of dry waste shall be stored on pallets.
Paint brushes and equipment for water and oil based paints shall be cleaned within
a contained area and shall not be allowed to contaminate site soils, watercourses
or drainage systems. Waste paints, thinners, solvents, residues, and sludge that
cannot be recycled or reused shall be disposed of as hazardous waste. When
thoroughly dry, latex paint and paint cans, used brushes, rags, absorbent
materials, and drop cloths shall be disposed of as solid waste.
Ensure that adequate hazardous waste storage volume is available.
Ensure that hazardous waste collection containers are conveniently located.
Designate hazardous waste storage areas on site away from storm drains or
watercourses and away from moving vehicles and equipment to prevent accidental
spills.
Minimize production or generation of hazardous materials and hazardous waste on
the job site.
Use containment berms in fueling and maintenance areas and where the potential
for spills is high.
Segregate potentially hazardous waste from non-hazardous construction site
debris.
Keep liquid or semi-liquid hazardous waste in appropriate containers (closed
drums or similar) and under cover.
Clearly label all hazardous waste containers with the waste being stored and the
date of accumulation.
Place hazardous waste containers in secondary containment.
Do not allow potentially hazardous waste materials to accumulate on the ground.
Do not mix wastes.
•

4.
5.
6.

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Disposal Procedures
1.
Waste shall be removed from the site within 90 days of being generated.
2.
Waste shall be disposed of by a licensed hazardous waste transporter at an
authorized and licensed disposal facility or recycling facility utilizing properly
completed Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest forms.
3.
A certified laboratory shall sample waste and classify it to determine the
appropriate disposal facility.
4.
Make sure that toxic liquid wastes (e.g., used oils, solvents, and paints) and
chemicals (e.g., acids, pesticides, additives, curing compounds) are not disposed
of in dumpsters designated for solid waste construction debris.
5.
Properly dispose of rainwater in secondary containment that may have mixed with
hazardous waste.
6.
Recycle any useful material such as used oil or water-based paint when practical.
Maintenance and Inspection
1.
A foreman and/or construction supervisor shall monitor on-site hazardous waste
storage and disposal procedures.
2.
Waste storage areas shall be kept clean, well organized, and equipped with ample
clean-up supplies as appropriate for the materials being stored.
Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-106-2

April 2004

3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Storage areas shall be inspected in conformance with the provisions in the contract
documents.
Perimeter controls, containment structures, covers, and liners shall be repaired or
replaced as needed to maintain proper function.
Hazardous spills shall be cleaned up and reported in conformance with the
applicable Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and the instructions posted at the
project site.
The National Response Center, at (800) 424-8802, shall be notified of spills of
Federal reportable quantities in conformance with the requirements in 40 CFR
parts 110, 117, and 302.
Copy of the hazardous waste manifests shall be provided to the owner.

REFERENCE
California Department of Transportation, Construction Site BMP Manual, 2000 or later

Stormwater
Technical Standards

CN-106-3

April 2004



 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Carmel ======================== Republican ======================== 

CHAPTER 300 HYDRAULICS AND HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES
SECTION 301 INTRODUCTION
301.01
Introduction

This chapter provides policies and technical procedures for analyzing the majority of
stormwater facilities required for land alteration projects. However, more detailed analyses
may be required depending on the specific site characteristics. Also, a set of standard detail
drawings available on the City’s website that provides guidance on the design of various
hydraulic structures that may not have been covered in this chapter. Adherence to the noted
standard details shall be required in addition to other requirements in this chapter. In case of
discrepancy, the most restrictive requirement shall apply.

301.02
Abbreviations and
Definitions

Abbreviations
BMP:

Best Management Practice

COE:

United States Army Corps of Engineers

IDEM:

Indiana Department of Environmental Management

IDNR:

Indiana Department of Natural Resources

INDOT:

Indiana Department of Transportation

NRCS:

USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service (formerly SCS)

USDA:

United States Department of Agriculture

Definitions
Catch Basin:

A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the admission of
surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a sediment
sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.

Channel:

A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically or
continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link
between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.

Culvert:

A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water under a
roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.

Curve

300-1

Number:

Design
Storm:

Drainage
Area:

The NRCS index that represents the combined hydrologic effect of soil,
land use, land cover, hydrologic condition and antecedent runoff condition.

A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability of occurring
once within a given number of years, for which drainage or flood control
improvements are designed and built.

The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be of different sizes
for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but generally the surface
runoff area is considered as the drainage area.

Duration:

The time period of a rainfall event.

Hydrograph:

For a given point on a stream, drainage basin, or a lake, a graph showing
either the discharge, stage (depth), velocity, or volume of water with respect
to time.

Inlet:

An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface storm
water runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.

Lowest Adjacent
Grade
The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a structure, where the soil
meets the foundation around the outside of the structure (including
structural members such as basement walkout, patios, decks, porches,
support posts or piers, and rim of the window well.

Minor Drainage
System:
Drainage system carrying runoff from an area of less than one square mile.

Peak
Discharge:

Rainfall
Intensity:

The maximum instantaneous flow from a given storm condition at a specific
location.

The rate at which rain is falling at any given instant, usually expressed in
inches per hour.

Regulated Drain: A drain subject to the provisions of the Indiana Drainage Code, I.C.-36-927

Runoff:

That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on the land
surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.

300-2

Storm
Sewer:

A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water, while excluding
sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a storm drain.

Stormwater
Drainage System All means, natural or man-made, used for conducting storm water to,
through or from a drainage area to any of the following: conduits and
appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches, storage facilities, swales,
streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.

Stormwater
Facility

Swale:

All ditches, channels, conduits, levees, ponds, natural and manmade
impoundments, wetlands, tiles, swales, sewers and other natural or artificial
means of draining surface and subsurface water from land.

An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least seasonally wet, is
usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing water. Swales
conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide some
groundwater recharge.

Time of
Concentration:

Watershed:

The travel time of a particle of water from the most hydraulically remote
point in the contributing area to the point under study. This can be
considered the sum of an overland flow time and times of travel in street
gutters, storm sewers, drainage channels, and all other drainage ways.

The region drained by or contributing water to a specific point that could be
along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities. Watersheds are often
broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic modeling.

To provide consistency within this chapter the following symbols will be used. These
symbols were selected because of their wide use in hydrologic and hydraulic publications. In
some cases the same symbol is used in existing publications for more than one definition.
Where this occurs in this chapter, the symbol will be defined where it occurs in the text or
equations.
TABLE 301:1: Symbols and Definitions
Symbols

Definition

Units

A
C
CN
D
I
N
Q
qp
tc or Tc
V

Drainage area
Runoff Coefficient
NRCS-runoff curve number
Duration
Rainfall intensity
Manning roughness coefficient
Rate of runoff
Peak rate of discharge
Time of concentration
Velocity

acres
-

300-3

hours
in/hr
cfs
cfs
min
ft/s

SECTION 302 STORMWATER DETENTION DESIGN

302.01
Introduction

The following shall govern the design of any improvement with respect to the detention of
stormwater runoff. Basins shall be constructed to temporarily detain the stormwater runoff
that exceeds the maximum peak release rate authorized by this Ordinance. The required
volume of storage provided in these basins, together with such storage as may be authorized
in other on-site facilities, shall be sufficient to control excess runoff from the 10-year or 100year storm as explained below in Sections 302.02 and 302.03. Also, basins shall be
constructed to provide adequate capacity to allow for sediment accumulation resulting from
development and to permit the pond to function for reasonable periods between cleanings.

302.02
Acceptable
Detention Facilities

The increased stormwater runoff resulting from a proposed development should be detained
on-site by the provisions of appropriate wet bottom or dry bottom detention facilities, parking
lots, or other acceptable techniques. Measures that retard the rate of overland flow and the
velocity in runoff channels shall also be used to partially control runoff rates.

302.03
Allowable Release
Rates

General Release Rates
Control devices shall limit the discharge to a rate such that the post-developed release rate
from the site is no greater than 0.1 cfs per acre of development for 0-10 year return interval
storms and 0.3 cfs per acre of developed area for 11 - 100 year return interval storms. The
above fixed general release rates may be set at a lower value by the City of Carmel for certain
watersheds if more detailed data becomes available as a result of comprehensive watershed
studies conducted and/or formally approved and adopted by the City of Carmel. The
applicant shall confirm the applicable release rates with the City of Carmel prior to initiating
the design calculations to determine whether a basin-specific rate has been established for the
watershed.
For sites where the pre-developed area has more than one (1) outlet, the release rate should be
computed based on pre-developed discharge to each outlet point. The computed release rate
for each outlet point shall not be exceeded at the respective outlet point even if the post
developed conditions would involve a different arrangement of outlet points.
Site-Specific Release Rates for Sites with Depressional Storage
For sites where depressional storage exists, the general release rates provided above may have
to be further reduced. If depressional storage exists at the site, site-specific release rates must
be calculated according to methodology described in Chapter 200, accounting for the
depressional storage by modeling it as a pond whose outlet is a weir at an elevation that
stormwater can currently overflow the depressional storage area. Post developed release rate
for sites with depressional storage shall be the 2-year pre-developed peak runoff rate for the
post-developed 10-year storm and 10-year pre-developed peak runoff rate for the postdeveloped 100-year storm. In no case shall the calculated site-specific release rates be larger
than general release rates provided above.
Note that by definition, the depressional storage does not have a direct gravity outlet but if in
agricultural production, it is more than likely drained by a tile and should be modeled as
“empty” at the beginning of a storm. The function of any existing depressional storage should

300-4

be modeled using an event hydrograph model to determine the volume of storage that exists
and its effect on the existing site release rate. To prepare such a model, certain information
must be obtained, including delineating the tributary drainage area, the stage-storage
relationship and discharge-rating curve, and identifying the capacity and elevation of the
outlet(s).
The tributary area should be delineated on the best available topographic data. After
determining the tributary area, a hydrologic analysis of the watershed should be performed,
including, but not limited to, a calculation of the appropriate composite runoff curve number
and time of concentration. Stage-storage data for the depressional area should be obtained
from the site topography. The outlet should be clearly marked and any calculations
performed to create a stage-discharge rating curve must be included with the stormwater
submittal.
Also note that for determining the post-developed peak runoff rates, the depressional storage
must be assumed to be filled unless the City of Carmel can be assured, through a dedicated
easement, that the noted storage will be preserved in perpetuity.
Downstream Restrictions
In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer system is inadequate to
accommodate the post-developed release rate provided above, then the allowable release rate
may need to be reduced to that rate permitted by the capacity of the receiving downstream
channel or storm sewer system. Additional detention, as determined by the City of Carmel,
may be required to store that portion of the runoff exceeding the capacity of the receiving
sewers or waterways. When such downstream restrictions are suspected, the City of Carmel
may require additional analysis to determine the receiving system’s limiting downstream
capacity.
If the proposed development makes up only a portion of the undeveloped watershed upstream
of the limiting restriction, the allowable release rate for the development shall be in direct
proportion to the ratio of its drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed
upstream of the restriction.
As an alternative, off-site drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may
include, but are not limited to, extending storm sewers, clearing, dredging, streambank
stabilization, and/or removal of obstructions to open drains or natural water courses, and the
removal or replacement of undersized culvert pipes or culvert pipes in a state of disrepair, as
required by the City of Carmel.

302.04
Methodology for
Determination of
Detention Storage
Volume

A.
Development Sites Less than or Equal to 5 Acres in Size, With a Contributing
Drainage Area Less than or Equal to 50 Acres and No Depressional Storage
The required volume of stormwater storage may be calculated using the Rational Method and
based on the runoff from a 100-year return period storm. A computer model, such as TR-55
(NRCS), TR-20 (NRCS), HEC-HMS (COE), and HEC-1 (COE), that can generate
hydrographs based on the NRCS TR-55 time of concentration and curve number calculation
methodologies may also be used along with a 24-hour duration NRCS Type 2 storm. Note
that for the purpose of determining the post-developed conditions curve numbers, due to
significant disturbance to the upper soil layers during the construction activities, the initially
determined hydrologic soil group for disturbed areas should be changed to the next less
infiltrating capacity category (i.e., A to B, B to C, and C to D).
The following 9-step procedure, based on the Rational Method, may be used to determine the
required volume of storage

300-5

Step

Procedure

1.
2.

Determine total drainage area in acres "A".
Determine the parcel area tributary to each outlet and determine the postdevelopment 100-year release runoff rate (Qu) based on general release rates
provided in Chapter 6 of these Technical Standards document.
Determine composite runoff coefficient "Cd" based on developed conditions and a
100-year return period.
Determine 100-year return rainfall intensity "Id" for various storm durations "td" up
through the time of concentration for the developed area using Table 2-4.
Determine developed inflow rates "Qd" for various storm durations "td", measured in
hours.

3
4.
5.

Qd = (Cd )(Id )( Ad )
6.

Compute a storage rate "S(td)" for various storm durations "td" up through the time of
concentration of the developed area.

S (td ) = (Qd ) − (Qu )
7.

Compute required storage volume "SR" in acre-feet for each storm duration "td".
This assumes a triangular hydrograph of duration (2td) hours with a peak flow of
S(td) at td hours.

⎛ td ⎞
SR = S (td )⎜ ⎟
⎝ 12 ⎠
8.

Select largest storage volume computed in Step 7 for any storm duration "td" for
detention basin design.

9.

Repeat Steps 2-8 of this process for the post-developed 10-year storm.

B.
Development Sites Greater Than 5 Acres in Size or Contributing Drainage Area
Greater than 50 Acres or With Significant Depressional Storage
All runoff detention storage calculations for these development sites shall be prepared using a
computer model that can generate hydrographs based on the NRCS TR-55 time of
concentration and curve number calculation methodologies. Note that for the purpose of
determining the post-developed conditions curve numbers, due to significant disturbance to
the upper soil layers during the construction activities, the initially determined hydrologic soil
group for disturbed areas should be changed to the next less infiltrating capacity category (i.e.,
A to B, B to C, and C to D).
The 24-hour NRCS Type 2 Rainfall Distribution shall be
utilized to determine the required storage volume. The allowable release rates shall be
determined based on the methodologies provided in Section 302.02. Examples of computer
models that can generate such hydrographs include TR-55 (NRCS), TR-20 (NRCS), HECHMS (COE), and HEC-1 (COE). These programs may be downloaded free of charge from
the associated agencies’ web sites. The computer models ICPR and Pond Pack may also be
used. However, the latter computer software are proprietary. If interconnected ponds are
utilized, the use of ICPR or Pond Pack may be required to appropriately model the more
complex hydrologic and hydraulic relationships associated with such system. Other models
may be acceptable and should be accepted by the City of Carmel prior to their utilization.

300-6

302.05
Management of OffSite Runoff

Runoff from all upstream tributary areas (off-site land areas) may be bypassed around the
detention/retention facility without attenuation. Such runoff may also be routed through the
detention/retention facility, provided that a separate, secondary outlet system is incorporated
for the safe passage of such flows, i.e., not through the primary outlet of a detention facility.
Unless the pond is being designed as a regional detention facility and therefore all off-site
runoff to the pond retained, the primary outlet structure shall be sized and the invert elevation
of the secondary outlet for bypassing off-site runoff determined according to the on-site
runoff only. To accomplish this, the 100-year on-site runoff must be determined by
temporarily ignoring the off-site runoff and routed through the pond and through the primary
outlet pipe. The resulting pond elevation would be the invert elevation of the secondary
outlet. Once the size and location of the primary outlet structure and the invert elevation of
the secondary outlet for off-site runoff are determined by considering on-site runoff only, the
size of the secondary outlet and the 100-year pond elevation is determined by routing the
entire inflow, on-site and off-site, through the pond. Once the 100-year pond elevation is
determined in this manner, the crest elevation of the open emergency weir noted in 302.10
(below) is set at that elevation.
Note that the efficiency of the detention/retention facility in controlling the on-site runoff may
be severely affected if the off-site area is considerably larger than the on-site area. As a
general guidance, on-line detention may not be effective in controlling on-site runoff where
the ratio of off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1. Additional detention (above and
beyond that required for on-site area) may be required by the City of Carmel when the ratio of
off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1.

302.06
General Detention
Basin Design
Requirements

1.

The detention facility shall be designed in such a manner that a minimum of 90% of
the maximum volume of water stored and subsequently released at the design release
rate shall not result in a storage duration in excess of 48 hours from the start of the
storm unless additional storms occur within the period. In other words, the design
shall ensure that a minimum 90% of the original detention capacity is restored within
48 hours from the start of the design 100-year storm.

2.

The 100-year elevation of stormwater detention facilities shall be separated by not
less than 25 feet from any building or structure to be occupied. The Lowest
Adjacent Grade (including walkout basement floor elevation) for all residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings shall be set a minimum of 2 feet above the 100year pond elevation or 2 feet above the emergency overflow weir elevation,
whichever is higher. In addition to the Lowest Adjacent Grade requirements, any
basement floor must be at least a foot above the normal water level of any wetbottom pond. Special considerations, based on detailed geotechnical analysis, should
be made prior to considering placement of any basement below the 100-year flood
elevation of an adjacent flooding source or pond.

3.

No detention facility or other water storage area, permanent or temporary, shall be
constructed under or within twenty (20) feet of any pole or high voltage electric line.
Likewise, poles or high voltage electric lines shall not be placed within twenty (20)
feet of any detention facility or other water storage area.

4.

All stormwater detention facilities shall be separated from any road right-of-way by
no less than fifty (50) feet, measured from the top of bank or the 100-year pool if no
defined top of bank is present. Use of guard rails, berms, or other structural
measures may be considered in lieu of the above-noted setbacks.

5.

Slopes no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical (3:1) for safety, erosion control,
stability, and ease of maintenance shall be permitted.

300-7

302.07
Additional
Requirements for
Wet-Bottom Facility
Design

6.

Debris Guard designed in accordance with Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office
Standard Detail D-12 shall be provided for any pipe or opening.

7.

Outlet control structures shall be designed to operate as simply as possible and shall
require little or no maintenance and/or attention for proper operation. For
maintenance purposes, the outlet shall be a minimum of 0.5 foot above the normal
water level of the receiving water body. They shall limit discharges into existing or
planned downstream channels or conduits so as not to exceed the predetermined
maximum authorized peak flow rate. If an outlet control structure includes an orifice
to restrict the flow rate, such orifice shall be no less than 6 inches in diameter, even if
the 6-inch diameter orifice results in a discharge that exceeds the predetermined
maximum authorized peak flow release rates as determined using methodologies in
Section 302.02.

8.

Grass or other suitable vegetative cover shall be provided along the banks of the
detention storage basin. Vegetative cover around detention facilities should be
maintained as provided by restrictive covenants, policy or codes.

9.

Debris and trash removal and other necessary maintenance shall be performed as
provided by restrictive covenants, policy or codes.

10.

No residential lots, or any part thereof, shall be used for any part of a detention basin,
assumed full to the 100-year water surface elevation or the emergency overflow weir
elevation, whichever is higher. Detention basins, assumed full to the 100-year water
surface elevation or the emergency overflow weir elevation, whichever is higher,
shall be placed within a common area either platted or legally described and recorded
as a perpetual stormwater easement. A minimum of fifteen (15) feet horizontally
from the top of bank of the facility, or the 100-year pool if no defined top of bank is
present, shall be dedicated as permanent stormwater easement if the above-noted
boundary of the common area does not extend that far.

11.

Detention basins shall be designed with an additional ten (10) percent of available
capacity to allow for sediment accumulation resulting from development and to
permit the pond to function for reasonable periods between cleanings. Basins should
be designed to collect sediment and debris in specific locations, such as a forebay, so
that removal costs are kept to a minimum. For wet-bottom ponds, the sediment
allowance may be provided below the permanent pool elevation. No construction
trash or debris shall be allowed to be placed within the permanent pool. If the pond
is used as a sediment control measure during active construction, the performance
sureties will not be released until sediment has been cleaned out of the pond and
elevations and grades have been reestablished as noted in the accepted plans.

12.

Detention basins shall be sized to detain the runoff from the fully developed right-ofway per the City of Carmel 20-year Thoroughfare Plan across all frontages,
regardless of existing watershed boundaries or drainage breaks/divides. The acreage
of the full right-of-way width shall be included in the overall acreage of the
development in determining the allowable release rate.

Where part of a detention facility will contain a permanent pool of water, all the items
required for detention storage shall apply. Also, a controlled positive outlet will be required
to maintain the design water level in the wet bottom facility and provide required detention
storage above the design water level. However, the following additional conditions shall
apply:

300-8

302.08
Additional
Requirements for
Dry-Bottom Facility
Design

302.09
Parking Lot Storage

1.

Facilities designed with permanent pools or containing permanent lakes shall have a
water area of at least one-half (0.5) acre with a minimum depth of eight (8) feet. If
fish are to be used to keep the pond clean, a minimum depth of approximately ten
(10) feet shall be maintained over at least 25 percent of the pond area. The
remaining pond area shall have no extensive shallow areas, except as required to
install the safety ramp, safety ledge, and stormwater BMPs as required below.
Construction trash or debris shall not be placed within the permanent pool. The pond
design shall be according to the Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office Standard Details
D-6 through D-8.

2.

A safety ramp exit from the lake may be required in some cases and shall have a
minimum width of twenty (20) feet and exit slope of 6 horizontal to 1 vertical (6:1).
The safety ramp shall be constructed of suitable material to prevent structural
instability due to vehicles or wave action.

3.

Periodic maintenance is required in lakes to control weed and larval growth. The
facility shall also be designed to provide for the easy removal of sediment that will
accumulate during periods of reservoir operation. Maintenance shall be provided by
restrictive covenants, policy or codes.

4.

Methods to prevent pond stagnation, including but not limited to aeration facilities,
should be considered on all wet-bottom ponds. Design calculations to substantiate
the effectiveness of proposed aeration facilities, and any impacts on the effectiveness
of the pond’s use as a stormwater BMP shall be submitted with final engineering
plans. Agreements for the perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities
shall be included in the restrictive covenants of the development or as provided by
policy or codes.

In addition to general design requirements, detention facilities that will not contain a
permanent pool of water shall comply with the following requirements:
1.

Provisions shall be incorporated into facilities for complete interior drainage of dry
bottom facilities, including a minimum 1% bottom slope in all directions if tile
underdrains are provided and a minimum of 2% if no underdrains are provided. A
positive/gravity outlet is required for the underdrains in all dry-bottom detention
facilities.

2.

For residential developments, the maximum planned depth of stormwater stored shall
not exceed four (4) feet.

3.

In excavated detention facilities, a minimum side slope of 3:1 shall be provided for
stability.

Paved parking lots may be designed to provide temporary detention storage of stormwater on
all or a portion of their surfaces. Depths of storage shall be limited to a maximum depth of
six (6) inches. Ponding should in general, be confined to those positions of the parking lots
farthest from the area served. Before such detention method is allowed, a perpetual
maintenance agreement must be executed by the owner or the developer and filed with the
City of Carmel. In addition, the 100-year inundation boundary should be determined and
clearly shown on the construction plans.

300-9

302.10
Detention Facilities
in Floodplains

302.11
Design of Detention
Facility Emergency
Spillways

Except for projects exempted under Chapter 100, Section 105-01, no detention facilities are
allowed to be placed within floodplains of any regulated drain or watercourse that has more
than 25 acres of contributing drainage area, whether designated as such on FEMA maps or
not.

Emergency overflow facilities such as a weir or spillway shall be provided for the release of
exceptional storm runoff or in emergency conditions should the normal discharge devices
become totally or partially inoperative. The overflow facility shall be of such design that its
operation is automatic and does not require manual attention.
Emergency overflow facilities shall be designed to convey, without overtopping the detention
facility banks, one and one-quarter (1.25) times the peak inflow discharge and peak flow
velocity resulting from the 100-year design storm event runoff from the entire contributing
watershed draining to the detention/retention facility, assuming post-development condition
on-site and existing condition off-site.
The emergency overflow routing from the emergency overflow facility to an adequate
receiving system must be positive (by gravity) and shown on the construction plans and on the
secondary plat.

302.12
Acceptable Outlet

Design and construction of the stormwater facility shall provide for the discharge of the
stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as well as the stormwater from the area being
developed (on-site land areas) to an acceptable outlet(s) (as determined by the City of Carmel)
having capacity to receive upstream (off-site) and on-site drainage.
Outlets into regulated drains or natural watercourses shall provide a positive unobstructed or
unrestrictive conveyance into said system. The following provisions shall be followed:
1.

All conveyances shall terminate into an approved adequate outlet.

2.

All outlets, either open drain or storm sewer, shall extend to the regulated drain or
natural watercourse.

3.

All storm sewer shall extend to either a receiving storm sewer system or an open
regulated drain or natural surface watercourse as approved by the City of Carmel.

4.

Storm sewers shall not outlet into rear yard swales

5.

Outlets shall not directly discharge onto the ground surface as surface flow.

6.

Underwater discharges shall not be allowed. All discharges into a watercourse,
pond, or lake shall have the invert at or above the normal pool elevation or normal
flow elevation for the receiving stream.

The flow path from the development outfall(s) to a regulated drain or natural watercourse (as
determined by the City of Carmel) shall be provided on an exhibit that includes topographic
information. Any existing field tile encountered during the construction shall also be
incorporated into the proposed stormwater drainage system or tied to an acceptable outlet. In

300-10

addition, no activities conducted, as part of the development, shall be allowed to obstruct the
free flow of floodwaters from an upstream property.
Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any development flows through
real estate owned by others prior to reaching a regulated drain or watercourse, no acceptance
shall be granted for such drainage system until all owners of real estate and/or tenants crossed
by the outfall consent in writing to the use of their real estate through a recorded easement or
are notified of such proposal and their rights to appeal any approval of the design. Proof of
this notification must be submitted to the jurisdiction entity.
If an adequate outlet is not located on site, then further reduction in allowable release rates or
off-site drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may include, but are
not limited to, extending storm sewers, clearing, dredging and/or removal of obstructions to
open drains or natural watercourses, and the removal or replacement of undersized culvert
pipes as required by the City of Carmel.

SECTION 303 OPEN CHANNEL DESIGN

303.01
Introduction

Open channel flow may be evaluated utilizing Manning’s equation, however, restrictions
within open channels, such as at open culverts or storm drains, may be required to be
evaluated by more sophisticated design methods such as those listed in Section 303.03.

303.02
Mannings Equation

The waterway area for channels shall be determined using Manning's Equation, where:

A = Q/V
A = Waterway area of channel in square feet
Q = Discharge in cubic feet per second (cfs)
V = Steady-State channel velocity, as defined by Manning’s Equation (See Section 305.02)
All channels and swales shall accommodate, as a minimum, peak runoff from a 10-year return
frequency storm calculated based on methodology described in Section 201.02. For Rational
Method analysis, the storm duration shall be equal to the time of concentration for the
drainage area. In computer-based analysis, the duration is as noted in the applicable
methodology associated with the computer program.
Channels with a carrying capacity of more than 30 cfs at bank-full stage shall be capable of
accommodating peak runoff for a 50-year return frequency storm within the drainage
easement.
The 10-year storm design flow for residential rear and side lot swales shall not exceed 4 cfs.
Regardless of minimum design frequencies stated above, the performance of all parts of
drainage system shall be checked for the 100-year flow conditions to insure that all buildings

300-11

are properly located outside the 100-year flood boundary and that flow paths are confined to
designated areas with sufficient easement and remain within the limits of the development.

303.03
Backwater Method
for Drainage System
Analysis

303.04
Appurtenant
Structures

The determination of 100-year water surface elevation along channels and swales shall be
based on accepted methodology and computer programs designed for this purpose. Computer
programs HEC-RAS, HEC-2, and ICPR are preferred programs for conducting such
backwater analysis. The use of other computer models must be accepted in advance by the
City of Carmel.

The design of channels will include provisions for operation and maintenance and the proper
functioning of all channels, laterals, travelways, and structures associated with the project.
Recessed inlets and structures needed for entry of surface and subsurface flow into channels
without significant erosion or degradation shall be included in the design of channel
improvements. The design will also provide for necessary floodgates, water level control
devices, and any other appurtenance structure affecting the functioning of the channels and
the attainment of the purpose for which they are built.
The effects of channel improvements on existing culverts, bridges, buried cables, pipelines,
and inlet structures for surface and subsurface drainage on the channel being improved and
laterals thereto shall be evaluated to determine the need for modification or replacement.
Culverts and bridges which are modified or added as part of channel improvement projects
shall meet reasonable standards for the type of structure, and shall have a minimum capacity
equal to the design discharge or governmental agency design requirements, whichever is
greater.

303.05
Grading and Depth
of Open Channels

1.

The required channel cross-section and grade are determined by the design capacity,
the material in which the channel is to be constructed, and the requirements for
maintenance. A minimum depth may be required to provide adequate outlets for
subsurface drains, tributary ditches, or streams. The channel grade shall be such that
the velocity in the channel is high enough to prevent siltation but low enough to
prevent erosion. Velocities less than 2 feet per second are not acceptable, as siltation
will take place and ultimately reduce the channel cross-section area. The maximum
permissible velocities in vegetated-lined channels are shown in Table 303.01. In
addition to existing runoff, the channel design should incorporate increased runoff
due to the proposed development.

2.

Where depth of design flow is slightly below critical depth, channels shall have
freeboard adequate to cope with the effect of hydraulic jumps.

3.

Along the streets and roads, the bottom of the ditch should be low enough to install
adequately sized driveway culverts without creating "speed bumps". The driveway
culvert inverts shall be designed to adequately consider upstream and downstream
culvert elevations.

4.

Flow of a channel into a closed system is prohibited, unless runoff rate and head loss
computations demonstrate the closed conduit to be capable of carrying the 100-year
channel flow for developed conditions, either entirely or in combination with a
defined overflow channel, with no reduction of velocity.

300-12

303.06
Channel Stability

5.

When the design discharge produces a depth of greater than three (3) feet in the
channel, appropriate safety precautions shall be added to the design criteria based on
reasonably anticipated safety needs.

6.

Swale side slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical (3:1). Flatter
slopes may be required to prevent erosion and for ease of maintenance. The swale
design shall be according to the Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office Standard Details
D-16.

7.

Minimum swale slopes are 1.0%, unless designed to act as a stormwater quality
BMP. All flow shall be confined to the specific easements associated with each rear
and side lot swale that are part of the minor drainage system. Unless designed to act
as a stormwater quality BMP, swales shall have tile underdrains to dry the swales.
(See Hamilton County Surveyor’s Office Standard Details D-16.) Tile lines may be
outletted through a drop structure at the ends of the swale or through a standard tile
outlet. Further guidance regarding this subject may be found in the latest edition of
the Indiana Drainage Handbook.

8.

The maximum length of rear and side lot swales before reaching any inlet shall not
exceed 300 feet or convey water from more than 3 residential lots, whichever is
shorter, unless designed as a stormwater quality BMP that meets the design criteria
provided in Appendix 701-1 of Chapter 700. Rear and side lot swales must be
drained to a storm sewer inlet. Rear yard swales draining to end sections will not be
permitted.

9.

Deep open ditches for drainage of the right-of-way are not permitted. Where curb
and gutter are not provided on a City street, a shallow swale that drains to an invert
or a road culvert shall be provided such that the low point in the swale is a minimum
of 6-inches below the subgrade elevation of the pavement.

Characteristics of a stable channel are:
a]

It neither promotes sedimentation nor degrades the channel bottom and sides.

b]

The channel banks do not erode to the extent that the channel cross-section is
changed appreciably.

c]

Excessive sediment bars do not develop.

d]

Excessive erosion does not occur around culverts, bridges, outfalls or elsewhere.

e]

Gullies do not form or enlarge due to the entry of uncontrolled flow to the channel.

Channel stability shall be determined for an aged condition and the velocity shall be based on
the design flow or the bankfull flow, whichever is greater, using an "n" value for various
channel linings as shown in Table 303.02. In no case is it necessary to check channel stability
for discharges greater than that from a 100-year frequency storm.
Channel stability shall be checked for conditions representing the period immediately after
construction. For this stability analysis, the velocity shall be calculated for the expected flow
from a 10-year frequency storm on the watershed, or the bankfull flow, whichever is smaller,
and the "n" value for the newly constructed channels in fine-grained soils and sands may be
determined in accordance with the "National Engineering Handbook 5, Supplement B, Soil
Conservation Service" (currently NRCS) and shall not exceed 0.025. This reference may be
obtained by contacting the National Technical Information Service in Springfield. The

300-13

allowable velocity in the newly constructed channel may be increased by a maximum of 20
percent to reflect the effects of vegetation to be established under the following conditions:
a]

The soil and site in which the channel is to be constructed are suitable for rapid
establishment and support of erosion controlling vegetation.

b]

Species of erosion controlling vegetation adapted to the area, and proven methods of
establishment are shown.

c]

The channel design includes detailed plans for establishment of vegetation on the
channel side slopes.

Materials acceptable for use as channel lining are:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Grass (hand sown or hydroseed) in combination with coconut matting or an erosion
control blanket (only until grass is established).
Revetment Riprap
Concrete
Hand Laid Riprap
Precast Cement Concrete Riprap
Gabions (or reno mattresses)

Use of bio-engineered (green solution) methods for lining materials is recommended and may
be explored, as applicable. Other lining materials must be accepted in writing by the City of
Carmel. Materials shall comply with the latest edition of the INDOT, "Standard
Specifications".

303.07
Drainage System
Overflow Design

Ponding and overflow path throughout the development resulting from a 100-year storm event
or from a flood route of an internal detention pond or off-site development or watershed,
calculated based on all contributing drainage areas, on-site and off-site, in their proposed or
reasonably anticipated land use and with the storm pipe system assumed completely plugged,
shall be determined, clearly shown as hatched area on the plans, and a minimum width of 30
feet along the centerline of the overflow path contained in permanent drainage easements and
shall remain within the limits of the development (shall not encroach onto adjacent
properties). A statement shall be added to the secondary plat that would refer the viewer to
the construction plans to see the entire extent of overflow path as hatched areas. No fences or
landscaping or any other above grade improvements can be constructed within the easement
areas that may impede the free flow of stormwater. These areas shall be designated as flood
routes and contained in common areas that are to be maintained in accordance with restrictive
covenants, codes or policies. The Lowest Adjacent Grade for all residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings shall be set a minimum of 2 feet above the highest noted overflow
path/ponding elevation across the property frontage.
All buildings shall have a minimum flood protection grade shown on the secondary plat.
Minimum Flood Protection Grade of all structures fronting a pond or open ditch shall be no
less than 2 feet above any adjacent 100-year local or regional flood elevations, whichever is
greater, for all windows, doors, pipe entrances, window wells, and any other structure
member where floodwaters can enter a building.
The overflow path/ponding may be modeled as successive series of natural ponds and open
channel segments. Consideration shall be given to the highest ground elevations along the
overflow path. Ponds should be modeled similar to that discussed for modeling depressional
areas in Section 302.02. Channels should be modeled according to modeling techniques
discussed earlier in this Chapter. The calculations for determining the 100-year overflow
path/ponding elevations may be based on hand calculation methods utilizing normal depth
calculations and storage routing techniques or performed by computer models. Examples of

300-14

computer models that either individually or in combination with other models can handle the
required computations include TR-20, HEC-HMS, and HEC-1, combined with HEC-RAS.
Other models may be acceptable and should be accepted by the City of Carmel prior to their
utilization.
Values in Table 303.03 may be utilized as an alternative to the above-noted detailed
calculations for determining the required pad elevations of buildings near an overflow path.
If Table 303.03 is used, the City of Carmel reserves the right to require independent
calculations to verify that the proposed building pads provide approximately 2 feet of
freeboard above the anticipated overflow path/ponding elevations.
In the case of existing upstream detention, an allowance equivalent to the reduction in flow
rate provided may be made for upstream detention only when: (1) such detention and release
rate have previously been accepted by the City of Carmel official charged with the approval
authority at the time of the acceptance, and (2) evidence of its construction and maintenance
can be shown.

SECTION 304 CULVERTS/BRIDGES

304.01
Introduction

The design methods and criteria outlined or referred to within this section shall be used in the
design and evaluation of culvert systems within the jurisdiction of this Manual. Computer
models such as Federal Highway Administration’s HY-8 may be used to perform
culvert/bridge design computations.
Culverts under roadways, involving backwater and/or road overflow during the 100-year
design storm, shall be analyzed utilizing the methodologies set forth in Section 303.03 of this
manual for determination of the depth of flow over the culvert/roadway during the peak
discharge from the 100-year design storm event, backwater elevations, downstream flow
velocities and resulting channel scour impacts.
The developer shall confirm the sizing of the existing roadway culverts of the roadways
across the frontage of the development. All culverts under the perimeter roadways of a
development shall be removed and replaced in order to convey the 100-year storm rain event
from the portion of the site draining to the culvert and the 100-year storm rain event from the
upstream contributing areas, regardless if the development is not discharging to these culverts.
In the event that the culverts are adequate, the City reserves the right to request removal and
replacement of the culvert if the culvert is determined by the City to be in an unacceptable
state of repair.
Regardless of minimum design frequencies stated above, the performance of all parts of a
drainage system shall be checked for the 100-year flow conditions to insure that all buildings
are properly located outside the 100-year flood boundary, and flow paths are confined to
designated areas with sufficient easement or, if within a development, remain within the limits
of the development.

304.02
Minimum Size
for Storm
Sewers

Minimum diameters for roadway and driveway culverts shall be eighteen (18) inches. End
sections shall be used for all culverts twenty-four (24) inches in diameter or smaller.

300-15

SECTION 305 STORM DRAINS/INLETS

305.01
Introduction

All storm sewers, whether private or public, and whether constructed on private or public
property shall conform to the design standards and other requirements contained herein.

Determination of hydraulic capacity for storm sewers sized by the Rational Method analysis
305.02
Storm Drain Pipe must be done using Manning's Equation where:
Design

V = (1.486/n)(R2/3 )(S1/2)
Then:

Q=(V)(A)

Where:
Q = capacity in cubic feet per second
V = mean velocity of flow in feet per second
A = cross sectional area in square feet
R = hydraulic radius in feet
S = slope of the energy grade line in feet per foot
n = Manning's "n" or roughness coefficient
The hydraulic radius, R, is defined as the cross sectional area of flow divided by the wetted
flow surface or wetted perimeter. Allowable "n" values and maximum permissible velocities
for storm sewer materials are listed in Table 303.02.
All storm sewers, inlets, catch basins, and street gutters shall accommodate (subject to the
“allowable spread” provisions discussed later in this Section), as a minimum, peak runoff
from a 10-year return frequency storm calculated based on methodology described in Section
201.02. Additional discharges to storm sewer systems allowed in Section 501.06 must be
considered in all design calculations. For Rational Method analysis, the duration shall be
equal to the time of concentration for the drainage area. In computer based analysis, the
duration is as noted in the applicable methodology associated with the computer program.
The pipe system shall be designed so the full flow velocities satisfy the criteria of Section
305.04. The piping system shall also be designed such that the hydraulic grade line remains
below the top of casting or grate elevation for the design storm. Piping network shall be sized
to accommodate runoff from the 10-year return frequency storm of the fully developed rightof-way per the City of Carmel 20-year Thoroughfare Plan when detention facilities are not
located adjacent to the main thoroughfare. The piping network shall include stubs for future
connections by the future road improvement project.
Regardless of minimum design frequencies stated above, the performance of all parts of
drainage system shall be checked for the 100-year flow conditions to insure that all buildings
are properly located outside the 100-year flood boundary and that flow paths are confined to
designated areas with sufficient easement and remain within the limits of the development.

300-16

The minimum diameter of all storm sewers shall be 12 inches. Under no circumstances shall
the pipe be less than 12-inches diameter, measured as the inside diameter. This shall apply to
both public and private storm piping, unless the piping is a roof drain, footing drain or sump
pump. When the minimum 12-inch diameter pipe will not limit the rate of release to the
required amount, the rate of release for detention storage shall be controlled by an orifice
plate or other device, subject to acceptance of the City of Carmel.
Minimum diameter for all subsurface drains under curbing and adjacent to swales shall be six
(6) inches.

305.03
Various computer modeling programs such as HYDRA, ILLUDRAIN, and STORMCAD are
Backwater Method available for analysis of storm drains. Computer models to be utilized, other than those listed,
for Pipe System must be accepted by the City of Carmel. The use of submerged storm sewer outfalls is
Analysis
prohibited.

305.04
Velocity

Minimum and maximum allowable slopes shall be those capable of producing velocities no
less than 2.5 and no greater than 10 feet per second, respectively, when the sewer is flowing at
full capacity, not average velocities or velocities resulting from conveying the flow from the
design storm.
Culverts shall be capable of accommodating, without overtopping the road, peak runoff from
a 100-year frequency storm when crossing under a road which is part of the City of Carmel
Thoroughfare Plan or the Hamilton County Thoroughfare Plan or is classified as freeway,
arterial, parkway, and/or collectors by the City of Carmel Zoning Ordinance or provides the
only access to and from any portion of any commercial or residential developments.

305.05
Inlet Sizing

Inlets or drainage structures shall be utilized to collect surface water through grated openings
and convey it to storm sewers, channels, or culverts. Storm drainage systems shall not
discharge into roadside ditches. The inlet grate opening provided shall be adequate to pass
the design 10-year flow with 50% of the sag inlet areas clogged. An overload channel from
sag inlets to the overflow channel or basin shall be provided at sag inlets. Inlet design and
spacing may be done using the hydraulic equations by manufacturers or orifice/weir
equations. Use of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers HEC-12 computer program is also an
acceptable method. Gutter spread on continuous grades may be determined using the
Manning's equation, or by using Figure 305.01. Adequate/multiple curb inlets shall be
placed at the end of steep road and swale grades to ensure the inlets are not overwhelmed by
high water velocity.
The allowable spread of water on Local and Collector Streets is limited to maintaining a 10foot moving lane of traffic for the design storm. An overflow channel/swale between sag
inlets and overflow paths or basin shall be provided at sag inlets so that the maximum depth
of water that might be ponded in the street sag shall not exceed the top of the curb.
Casting elevations of all inlets shall be such that the 100-year elevation of the detention
facilities, backing into the pipe system stays below the grate elevation and remains within the
limits of the property in yard and swale areas. Concentrated discharges from alleys and
private streets shall be included in such gutter spread calculations to determine the need for
additional inlets in the alley, private street, or public street to ensure the allowable spread is
not exceeded for the design storm. Further guidance regarding gutter spread calculation may
be found in the latest edition of HERPICC Stormwater Drainage Manual, available from the

300-17

Local Technical Assistance Program (LTAP). At the time of printing of this document,
contact information for LTAP was:
Indiana LTAP
Purdue University
Toll-Free: (800) 428-7369 (Indiana only)
Phone: (765) 494-2164
Fax: (765) 496-1176
Email: inltap@ecn.purdue.edu
Website: www.purdue.edu/INLTAP/
Regardless of minimum design frequencies stated above, the performance of all parts of
drainage system shall be checked for the 100-year flow conditions to insure that all buildings
are properly located outside the 100-year flood boundary and that flow paths are confined to
designated areas with sufficient easement and remain within the limits of the development.

SECTION 306 EASEMENTS

306.01
Introduction

Guidelines for minimum easement widths are provided below. More stringent requirements
for stormwater easement size and additional covenants may be made by the City of Carmel
based upon individual size conditions.
Detention/retention basins shall be constructed within a common area either platted or legally
described and recorded as a perpetual stormwater easement. A minimum of fifteen (15) feet
horizontally from the top of bank of the facility shall be dedicated as permanent stormwater
easement if the boundary of the above-noted common area does not extend that far.
Public street rights-of-ways
detention/retention facilities.

will

not

be

acceptable

areas

for

construction

of

No drainage easement or a combination drainage and utility easement shall be located within
a tree preservation easement or landscape easement.

306.02
Easement
Requirements

There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or fences erected, in any drainage
easement, unless otherwise accepted by the City of Carmel.
A.

All new channels, drain tiles equal to or greater than 12 inches in diameter, inlet and
outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances thereto as
required by this Article, that are installed in subdivisions requiring a stormwater
management permit from the City of Carmel shall be contained within a minimum
30 feet of drainage easement (15 feet from centerline on each side) and shown on the
recorded plat. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface stormwater piping, tubing,
tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, etc.

B.

A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new channel shall be
designated on the recorded plat as a Drainage Easement. If the top of bank is not
vegetated according to the development’s landscape plan, a minimum 25-foot width
of filter strip shall be installed within the drainage easement.

300-18

C.

Rear-yard swales and emergency overflow paths associated with detention ponds
shall be contained within a minimum of 30 feet width (15 feet from centerline on
each side) of drainage easement.

D.

A minimum of 15 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the bank or the 100-year
pond elevation if no top of bank is present) of stormwater detention facilities shall be
designated as drainage easement. A minimum 20-foot width easement shall also be
required as access easement from a public right-of-way to the facility, unless the
pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way

300-19

TABLE 303.01

Maximum Permissible Velocities in Vegetal-Lined Channels (1)
Permissible Velocity (2)
Erosion Resistant
Soils
(ft. per sec.)
(4)

Easily
Eroded Soils
(ft. per sec.)
(4)

0-5
5-10
Over 10

8
7
6

6
5
4

Bahia
Buffalo Grass
Kentucky Bluegrass
Smooth Brome
Blue Grama

0-5
5-10
Over 10

7
6
5

5
4
3

Grass Mixture
Reed Canary Grass

(3) 0-5
5-10

5
4

4
3

Lespedeza Sericea
Weeping Lovegrass
Yellow Bluestem
Redtop
Alfalfa
Red Fescue

(4)
3.4

2.5

3.5

2.5

Cover

Bermuda Grass

Common
Lespedeza (5)
Sudangrass (5)

(1)

Channel Slope
Range
(Percent)
(3)

0-5
5-10

(6)
0-5

From Natural Resource Conservation Service, SCS-TP-61, "Handbook of Channel Design for
Soil and Water Conservation".

(2)

Use velocities exceeding 5 feet per second only where good channel ground covers and
proper maintenance can be obtained.
(3)
Do not use on slopes steeper than 10 percent except for vegetated side slopes in combination
with a stone, concrete, or highly resistant vegetative center section.
(4)
Do not use on slopes steeper than 5 percent except for vegetated side slopes in combination
with a stone, concrete, or highly resistant vegetative center section.
(5)
Annuals - use on mild slopes or as temporary protection until permanent covers are
established.
(6)
Use on slopes steeper than 5 percent is not recommended.

300-20

TABLE 303.02

Typical Values of Manning’s “n”
Manning’s
“n”

Maximum Velocities
(feet/second)

Concrete

0.013

10

Vitrified Clay

0.013

10

HDPE

0.012

10

PVC

0.011

10

Material
Closed Conduits

Circular CMP, Annular Corrugations, 2 2/3 x ½ inch
Unpaved

0.024

7

25% Paved

0.021

7

50% Paved

0.018

7

100% Paved

0.013

7

Concrete Culverts

0.013

10

HDPE or PVC

0.012

10

Concrete, Trowel Finish

0.013

10

Concrete, Broom Finish

0.015

10

Gunite

0.018

10

Riprap Placed

0.030

10

Riprap Dumped

0.035

10

Gabion

0.028

10

New Earth (1)

0.025

4

Existing Earth (2)

0.030

4

Dense Growth of Weeds

0.040

4

Dense Weeds and Brush

0.040

4

Swale with Grass

0.035

4

Open Channels

Source of manning “n” values: HERPICC Stormwater Drainage Manual, July 1995.
(1)
(2)

New earth (uniform, sodded, clay soil)
Existing earth (fairly uniform, with some weeds).

300-21

TABLE 303.03

Building Pad Elevations With Respect to Overflow Path Invert
Elevations
Drainage Area (acres)

Building Pad Above
Overflow Path
Invert (ft.)

Building Pad Above
Overflow Path Invert, if
Overflow Path is in the
Street (ft.)

Up to 5

3.5

2.5

6-10

4.0

2.5

11-15

4.25

2.75

16-20

4.5

2.75

21-30

5.0

3.0

30-50

5.25

3.0

300-22

FIGURE 305.01: Street and Gutter Capacities (continuous grade)

300-23



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHAPTER 300 HYDRAULICS
SECTION 301 INTRODUCTION

301.01 Section
Description

This chapter provides policies and technical procedures for analyzing
the majority of stormwater facilities required for land alteration
projects.
However, more detailed analyses may be required
depending on the specific site characteristics.

To provide consistency within this chapter the following symbols will
be used. These symbols were selected because of their wide use in
hydrologic and hydraulic publications. In some cases the same symbol
is used in existing publications for more than one definition. Where this
occurs in this chapter, the symbol will be defined where it occurs in the
text or equations.

TABLE 301-01: Symbols and Definitions
Symbols

Definition

A
C
CSF
CSG
CD
D
D

Cross section area
ft
Rational method
Stability correction factor
Specific gravity correction factor
Weir coefficient or discharge coefficient
Depth of flow
ft
Size of riprap for which i (e.g. 100, 50, or 15)
percent of the stone diameters are smaller
ft
2
Acceleration due to gravity
ft/s
Head on orifice
ft
Sum of energy losses
Headwater depth above invert of culvert (depth from
inlet invert to upstream total energy grade line)
ft
Rainfall intensity
in/hr
Side slope correction factor
Length
ft
Manning roughness coefficient
100-year rainfall
in
Wetted perimeter
ft
Rate of runoff/discharge
cfs
Allowable release rate
cfs
Hydraulic radius
ft
Bed Slope or Slope of hydraulic grade line
ft/ft
Friction slope
ft/ft
3
Specific gravity of stone
lbs/ft
Cross slope
ft/ft
Stability factor
Storm duration
min
Time of concentration
min
3
Shear stress
lbs/ft
3
Permissible shear stress
lbs/ft

g
H
HL
HW
i
K
L
n
P
Pw
Q
Qr
R or r
S or s
Sf
SG
Sx
SF
t
tc
Td
Tp
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

Units
2

page 3-1
January 2011 - FINAL

T
TW
v
Vol, or V
Vf

302.01 Introduction

302.02 The
Requirement for
Detention/Retention

Channel top width
Tailwater depth
Velocity
Volume
Huff storm factor

ft
ft
ft/s
3
ft

SECTION 302 DETENTION/RETENTION DESIGN
The design methods and criteria outlined within this section shall be used
in the design and evaluation of detention/retention systems within the
jurisdictional boundaries of this Manual.
All designs must be
supplemented with a detention/retention design summary report. A
sample detention/retention design summary report is provided by Figure
302-1.
Detention/retention shall be required on all new developments except:
1.

those identified in Chapter 200, section 201.06; or

2.

where downstream mitigation efforts are accepted in lieu of
detention/retention.

The figure below shows the logical steps in considering the need for
detention/retention:

Detention
Required?

No

Out

Yes
Is Site
< 5 Acres

Yes

Want to do
D/S Analysis?

No

No

Over Design
Detention Basin

Yes

Perform D/S
Analysis

Pre/Post Flow
Analysis

Pass

Out

Fail
Design
Detention

Design D/S
Mitigation

Modify Site
Design

STEP 1: Is detention/retention required according to 201.06? If it is not
the designer skips any consideration of downstream analysis or
detention / retention. If detention/retention is required the designer
proceed to step 2. The downstream analysis must assess each outflow
point from the site separately.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-2
January 2011 - FINAL

STEP 2: Are any individual potential detention/retention sites draining
areas less than 5 acres total including off-site drainage? If so the
designer has the option as to whether or not to perform downstream
analysis. There may be good reasons to avoid downstream analysis in
favor of increased detention design. If "NO" the designer performs an
oversized detention/ retention design and proceeds with the design. If
"YES" the designer goes to Step 3
STEP 3: The designer performs a downstream capacity analysis for the
storm frequencies required for the stormwater facilities encountered
downstream. This will normally require the 10-, 25- and 100-year
storms.
STEP 4: The designer next performs the pre / post development
discharge analysis described in Section 302.03. If the flows "PASS" the
designer does not need to provide detention/retention, mitigation or site
design modification.
STEP 5: If the site “FAILS” the flow test or if there is inadequate
downstream capacity for the post-development discharge the designer
performs one or a combination of detention/retention design,
downstream stormwater facility mitigation and/or site modification.
302.03 Minimum
Performance Level of
Detention/Retention
Facilities

The design criteria for detention/retention are:
1.

The minimum hydraulic performance levels and accepted design
methodologies for detention/retention basins shall conform to the
following:

Q2 p = 0.5 Q2e
Q10 p = 0.5 Q10e
Q25 p = 0.75Q10e
Q100 p = Q10e
where:
Q2e
Q10e
Q2p
Q10p
Q25p
Q100p
2.

3.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

=
=
=
=
=
=

2 year discharge rate, existing conditions
10 year discharge rate, existing conditions
2 year discharge rate, developed conditions
10 year discharge rate, developed conditions
25 year discharge rate, developed conditions
100 year discharge rate, developed conditions

Local basins are those which have a total land area contributing
flow to the detention/retention basin, including on-site and off-site
areas, of less than five (5) acres. Local basin designs in which
the designer elects to over design the detention basin in lieu of
performing downstream analysis, may be designed using the
Modified Rational method as set forth herein.
All other
detention/retention designs shall use runoff hydrographs and
routing techniques.
Regional basins are those which have a total land area
contributing flow to the basin, including on-site and off-site areas,
of five (5) acres or larger. In addition to the discharge rate
page 3-3
January 2011 - FINAL

requirements above, the following velocity requirements shall
apply for regional basins:

V 2 p = V 2e
V 10 p = V 10e
V 25 p = V 10e
V 100 p = V 10e
where:
V2e
V10e
V2p
V10p
V25p
V100p

=
=
=
=
=
=

2 year velocity, existing conditions
10 year velocity, existing conditions
2 year velocity, developed conditions
10 year velocity, developed conditions
25 year velocity, developed conditions
100 year velocity, developed conditions

All regional detention/retention designs
hydrographs and routing techniques.
4.

302.04 Increased
Detention/Retention In
Lieu Of Downstream
Analysis

shall

use

runoff

When computing the discharges for detention/retention basin
design the entire upstream area that contributes runoff to the
design point must be included in the computations. Areas that
are bypassed for all levels of flow are the only allowable
reductions in drainage area.

For local basins an increased level of detention/retention may be used in
lieu of the downstream analysis described in Chapter 200, sections
201.05 through 201.06. If this option is selected, the design shall
conform to the requirements for a local basin plus:
The stormwater runoff from all impervious area on the site shall
be routed through the detention/retention facility, unless
otherwise approved.
Stormwater flows shall not be diverted to downstream facilities
which do not accept runoff from the developing property under
existing conditions.
Minor collector swales located within residential or commercial
developments, or collector swales located within open land uses
such as agricultural fields, golf courses, and parks and recreation
areas, as examples, will not be considered acceptable outfalls
for a detention/retention providing this level of runoff control,
unless a low flow system with an underdrain is installed
downstream to convey trickle flows from these basins.
The Modified Rational method, discussed in the next section, may be
used for sizing this type of detention pond since downstream analysis is
not required. Standard routing design may also be used even though
downstream analysis is not done.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-4
January 2011 - FINAL

302.05 Modified
Rational Method

The Modified Rational Method may be used for the sizing of local
detention/retention basins where downstream analysis is not required, as
described in this section. The method approximates the required storage
volume of the detention basin during the storm event. In addition the
hydrograph shape is trapezoidal to approximate the shape of other
hydrologic methods. Figure 302-2 illustrates the hydrograph and basin
outflow. The general equation for the storage volume for this method is:

Vol = 60[CiAt - QR(t + t c )/2]

(Equation 302.01)

where:
Vol = required volume of the pond (cubic feet)
C = post development C factor
i = rainfall intensity from the IDF curve (in/hr)
A=Area
QR= allowable release rate
t = storm duration to maximize the storage volume (minutes)
tc = post-developed time of concentration (minutes)
To properly design a retention/detention basin system two critical design
criteria must be applied. These two design criteria are the 100-year post
developed peak flow controlled to the 10-year pre-developed peak flow
levels and the 2-year post-developed peak flow controlled to 50 percent
of the 2-year pre-developed peak flow levels.
It should be noted, that for this method to give accurate results
comparable to those found for routing of hydrographs, accurate
estimates of the pre-development peak flows using the Rational Method
must be made. The runoff coefficients given in Table 204.01 are
conservative for peak flow design in that they are at the high end of the
range of values possible for undeveloped conditions. While this provides
a measure of conservatism for peak flow conveyance structures, it is
very non-conservative for detention design where values at the low end
of the range are more applicable. Therefore the following C values
(called CR) are to be used to determine the pre-development allowable
release rates (QR) for detention design for the Modified Rational Method.
These values are to be used only for pre-development conditions for the
Modified Rational Method detention design, not for peak flow calculations
for stormwater conveyance facilities such as storm drains or culverts.
CR Factors for Allowable Release Rates
for Modified Rational Detention Design
Hydrologic Soil
Group B

Hydrologic Soil
Group C

Slope %
2 Year

0-2
0.03

2-7
0.03

0-2
0.03

2–7
0.03

10 year

0.03

0.04

0.11

0.13

Thus, for the 10-year pre-development allowable release rate the
equation for QR is CR i10 A. And for the 2-year pre-development
allowable release rate the equation for QR is 0.5 CR i2 A (allowing for fifty
percent of the 2-year flow).

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-5
January 2011 - FINAL

Equation 302.01 can be combined with a form of the IDF curve
equations, derivatives taken and set to zero and resubstitution done.
The result is two equations that can be used to size a detention/retention
basin for both design criteria. Contact the Department for more
information on the method's derivation. To control the 100-year postdevelopment peak flow to the 10-year pre-developed peak flow Equation
302.02 should be used to determine the critical duration, the time at
which the storage volume is maximized.

tc =

2CAab
- b
QR

(Equation 302.02)

where:
C=developed condition C factor
tc = critical storm duration (minutes)
a = constant for 100-year storm event in Indianapolis = 222.37
b = constant for 100-year storm event in Indianapolis = 18.48
QR =allowable release rate, cfs
The maximum required volume for the 100-year post-developed to 10year pre-developed design can be found using Equation 302.03.
1/2
V max = 60[CAa - (2 CabAQR ) +

QR
(b - t c )]
2
(Equation 302.03)

where: Vmax = required storage volume (cubic feet)
and all other variables are as previously defined.
In a similar fashion, the preceding formulas should be used to size a 2year storm event orifice and storage volume. These 2-year values
(storage volume and allowable peak outflow) can be used to compute a
smaller 2-year orifice with an overtopping weir wall placed in front of the
10-year orifice. The designer should exercise care to ensure that the
weir wall is not more restrictive than the 10-year orifice. The critical
duration for this design criteria, the time at which the storage volume is
maximized, can be found solving Equation 302.02 with the following
variable definitions:
a = constant for 2-year storm event in Indianapolis = 91.28
b = constant for 2-year storm event in Indianapolis = 14.92
The maximum required volume for the 2-year post-developed peak flow
to fifty percent of the 2-year pre-developed peak flow design can be
found using Equation 302.03 with the appropriate 2-year design
constants and release rate.
The results of these prior computations are two sets of data. The first is
the required storage volume and associated allowable outflow for the
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-6
January 2011 - FINAL

100-year post-developed peak flow release to the 10-year pre-developed
peak flow design. The second is the required storage volume and
associated allowable outflow for the 2-year post-developed peak flow
reduce to fifty percent of the 2-year pre-developed peak flow design.
Using this information, the designer can derive an outlet structure
configuration that meets the allowable outflow criteria based on a
maximum headwater depth that corresponds to the maximum required
storage volume. Typical designs place the smaller 2-year orifice in front
of the 10-year orifice with a weir wall set at the maximum 2-year
headwater depth that corresponds to the 2-year volume.
After determining the headwater and orifice size, the required storage
volumes calculated from equation 302-03 for both design criteria must be
multiplied by a Huff Storm factor to account for greater volumes of rainfall
for longer duration storms using Huff distributions. The factor is defined
by Equation 302.04.

Vf=

P8-hour
PTcrit

(Equation 302.04)

where:
Vf
P8-hour
Ptcrit

= Huff storm factor
= 100-year, 8-hour storm rainfall depth (in.)
= 4.77 in.
= 100-year rainfall depth for the critical storm
duration as solved by equation 302.02

302.06 Bypassing Flow

When stormwater detention/retention is required, all parts of the
developing site should drain through the detention/retention basin,
unless otherwise approved. Upstream drainage areas may be bypassed
and therefore not considered in the computations as long as the
conditions set in Section 302.03 are met.

302.07
Detention/Retention
Facility Design

The minimum accepted bottom transverse slope of dry detention basins
shall be 1.0 percent (1%). Vegetated bank side-slope shall be no
steeper than 3 (horizontal) to 1 (vertical).
The flow path from all inlets in a dry detention basin to the outlet of the
basin shall be provided with an under-drain system.
Vegetated areas of wet detention basins shall have an earthen
embankment constructed with side slopes no steeper than 3 (horizontal)
to 1 (vertical). Earthen embankments armored with rock rip-rap shall
have side slopes no steeper than 1 ½ (horizontal) to 1 (vertical).
All wet detention/retention facilities shall have a safety bench/shelf at the

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-7
January 2011 - FINAL

normal pool level. The safety bench shall have a minimum width of ten
(10) feet and a slope no steeper than 4 (horizontal) to 1 (vertical).
If a retaining wall adjoins the normal pool of a wet detention pond the
wall shall have either steps or a ladder incorporated into the construction
at the center of the wall span.
When retention facilities are designed information must be provided on
the plans that supports the ability of the structure to retain water,
including the soil types on the site and a geologist‟s report showing how
the site will infiltrate water.
Minimum normal depth of a wet pond, calculated as the deepest point in
the pond, shall be eight (8) feet.
The maximum ponding depth for parking lot detention shall be seven (7)
inches for the 100-year storm event runoff from the entire contributing
watershed.
Proper operations and maintenance practices for all detention/ retention
structures and their appurtenances, such as emergency spillways, will be
identified in the Operations and Maintenance Manual, as required in
Section 102.06.

302.08 Design of
Detention/Retention
Facility Emergency
Spillways

Emergency spillways shall be capable of handling one and one-quarter
times (125%) the inlet peak discharge and peak flow velocity resulting
from the 100-year design storm event runoff from the entire contributing
watershed, assuming post-development conditions, draining to a
detention/retention facility. However, engineering judgment may dictate
use of a higher design standard.
Many types of emergency spillways are allowable provided adequate
provision is made for the discharge of the flow through the facility and a
minimum freeboard of one-foot (1) is provided for larger regional ponds
above the maximum anticipated flow depth through the emergency
spillway. All emergency spillways shall outlet to an easement containing
a channel with acceptable capacity.
All calculations, easement delineation, and cross sections for the
emergency spillway are to be submitted for review.

302.09 Outlet
Hydraulics - Orifice
Flow

The outlet hydraulics of a detention/retention basin typically consists of
two types of flow, orifice and weir flow. The basic equation for
determination of orifice flow is as follows:

Q = C D A 2gH

(Equation 302.01)

where:
Q = peak discharge rate, cfs
CD = coefficient of discharge, dimensionless
A = cross sectional area of orifice, square feet
g = acceleration due to gravity (32.2 ft/sec/sec)
H = head on the orifice, feet.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-8
January 2011 - FINAL

The value of H is determined by different methods depending upon the
location of the water surface as follows:
Free Discharge:

H is the difference in elevation between
upstream water surface and center of flow of the
orifice.

Submerged Orifice:

H is the difference in elevation between
upstream and downstream water surfaces.

The value of the coefficient of discharge CD is a function of the size and
shape of the orifice, the head on the orifice, the sharpness of the orifice's
edge, the roughness of the inner surface, and the degree to which the
contraction of flow is suppressed (Reference King's Handbook of
Hydraulics). A nominal value of 0.60 may be used for the standard types
of orifices and head ranges used for outlet control structures, however,
sound engineering judgment must be used in the practical application of
this value.

302.10 Outlet
Hydraulics – Weir Flow

Weir structures may be either sharp-crested, rounded, or broad-crested.
The means by which a weir functions can change depending upon the
depth of head above the weir. A broad-crested weir may become a
sharp-crested weir at higher heads, depending upon its physical
configuration.
The general equation for weir flow is as follows:

Q = C D LH 1.5

(Equation 302.02)

where:
Q = peak discharge rate, cfs
CD = coefficient of discharge, dimensionless
L = length of the weir, feet
H = head on the weir, the difference in elevation
between the weir crest and the water surface measured
upstream of the crest a short distance, feet.
Values of CD for sharp-crested, rectangular weirs can range from about
3.3 to 4.9. This coefficient is dependent upon the head on the weir, the
height of the weir crest above the streambed, and the degree of
submergence. Values of CD can be selected from tables in King's
Handbook of Hydraulics or other suitable references. Sound engineering
judgment must be used in the interpretation of CD values for various
design conditions.
302.11 Easements

Guidelines for minimum easement widths are provided below. More
stringent requirements for stormwater easement size and additional
covenants may be made by the Department based upon individual site
conditions.
All detention/retention basins shall be constructed within a
stormwater easement either platted or legally described and
recorded as a perpetual stormwater easement a minimum of twenty
(20) feet horizontally outside of the design 100-year flood water

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-9
January 2011 - FINAL

elevation of the basin.
All emergency spillways will have an easement that extends from
the crown of the emergency spillway structure to the point where
the spillway enters the downstream drainage system.
Public street rights-of-ways will not be acceptable areas for construction
of detention/retention facilities, unless otherwise approved by this
Department.

SECTION 303 OPEN CHANNEL DESIGN

303.01 Introduction

Open channel flow may be evaluated utilizing Manning's equation,
however, restrictions within open channels, such as at open culverts or
storm drains, may be required to be evaluated by more sophisticated
design methods such as the direct-step backwater or reservoir routing
techniques.

303.02
Easements/Minimum
Flood Protection
Elevations

Hydraulic and hydrologic computations must be performed to determine
the maximum inundated area resulting from the 25-year design storm
event runoff. No habitable structures may be located within this area.
For areas which drain more than 5 acres:
easements must be dedicated which encompass the entire
delineated 25-year flood area;
additional hydraulic and hydrologic calculations must be
performed to determine the maximum inundated area resulting
from the 100-year design storm event runoff
a 100-year flood line must be delineated in addition to the 25year easement restriction.
The lowest location of any proposed habitable structures where water
may enter must be located above this delineated 100-year flood
elevation.
Collector
side
Swales

Surface water collector swales within the rear yard and

Open Ditches

Open ditches, those which do not have grass bottoms or
are not accessible to vehicular traffic within the ditch,
shall be placed within a drainage easement of a
minimum width of ten (10) feet from the top of one bank
of the channel.

Flood
Protection

Properties located within the regulatory floodway or
floodway fringe area shall provide floodway/floodway

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

yard areas of residential subdivisions, on all
non-residential parcels, and for all bypassed flow
conveyances shall be constructed within a drainage
easement possessing a minimum width of twenty (20)
feet. For residential properties the drainage swale
should be generally constructed approximately in the
middle of the easement.

page 3-10
January 2011 - FINAL

Grades

fringe boundary delineations on the site plan. A citation
of the regulatory source for these boundary delineations
and minimum lowest enclosed floor elevations of
permanent structures shall be provided on the site plan.
Additional requirements for completing alterations to the
land or existing structures within regulatory flood hazard
areas may be found within the Flood Control District
Zoning Ordinance for Marion County, Indiana, which
may be found within the Appendix of Section 100 of this
Manual.

Floodplain management shall be in accordance with the adopted
floodplain regulations. The City of Indianapolis has adopted floodplain
regulations through the Flood Control District Zoning Ordinance of
Marion County, Indiana. A copy of the effective Flood Control District
Zoning Ordinance has been included within the appendix of Chapter
100.
In addition to these regulations, the following specific
requirements and other applicable requirements found or stated in this
manual shall apply:
1. Structures located in a Flood Control Zoning District established
and regulated by effective Flood Control Districts Zoning Ordinance
of Marion County, Indiana, shall conform with all applicable
standards and requirements of said Ordinance.
2. Structures to be constructed that are not located in a flood control
district regulated by the Flood Control Districts Zoning Ordinance of
Marion County, Indiana, shall conform with the following
requirements:
a.

The first finished floor of new structure to be constructed
adjacent to a surface drainage feature which drains areas
between 150 and 640 acres shall be located at an elevation at
least two feet above the maximum 100-year water surface
elevation. The 100-year water surface elevation may be
established through the use of a single cross-section analysis.

b.

The lowest enclosed area of any structure located adjacent to
surface drainage features which drain areas greater than 640
acres or which is located within a Flood Control Zoning District
established by the effective Flood Control Districts Zoning
Ordinance of Marion County, Indiana, for which the effective
Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance
Study for the City of Indianapolis does not establish 100-year
water surface elevations, shall be located at an elevation which
is at least two feet above the maximum 100-year water surface
elevation. The 100-year water surface elevation shall be
established:

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

(1)

By a site specific recommendation from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; or

(2)

Through a site-specific engineering analysis performed in
accordance with regulations adopted by the Board of
Public Works; and where applicable

page 3-11
January 2011 - FINAL

(3)

303.03 Grading and
Depth of Open
Channels / Swales

In conformance with the effective Flood Control Districts
Zoning Ordinance of Marion County, Indiana

Except for road side ditches, the side-slope of grass lined channels
shall be no steeper than 3 (horizontal) to 1 (vertical). When the
bottom width of trapezoidal grass-lined channels exceeds fifteen
(15) feet, rock rip-rap or paved low flow channels shall be provided
to convey low flows and to prevent meandering. For grass-lined
channels, intended to convey continuous trickle flows such as for
retention pond outlets, an enclosed storm drain, subsurface tile
with gravel envelope, rock rip-rap, or paved low flow channel will be
required.
The rock used in side-slope rip-rap shall be no smaller than 6
inches.
The side-slope of rock rip-rap lined open conveyance channels
shall be no steeper than 1 ½ (horizontal) to 1 (vertical), unless
otherwise approved.
To prevent chronic wetness in the invert of open channels,
subsurface tiles shall be installed a minimum of 1 ½ feet in depth
(from the tile invert), with a #8 gravel or equivalent size washed
stone as a granular envelope, as follows:
Minor drainage collector swales in rear yards and between
homes shall possess a maximum channel length of 400
lineal feet and no off-site water, unless subsurface tile is
also provided. The required channel slope and invert
treatment for minor drainage collector swales shall be as
follows: swales shall be grass lined; subsurface drainage
tile shall be required if the channel slope is less than 2.0%;
and, the minimum channel slope shall be 0.3%.
For basement residential lots a “tee” should be provided in
the rear lot line’s subsurface drain for the purpose of
discharging sump pump water directly into the drain.
For relatively large open channels and perennial streams,
minimum channel slopes and the provision of subsurface
drainage shall be approved on a case basis by the Department.
Privately owned open channels, including man-made ditches, swales,
and natural streams, shall be repaired and/or reconstructed such that all
woody vegetation has been cleared, and the channel banks are properly
stabilized to prevent present and future erosion.

303.04 Channel Lining
Design Requirements

The peak discharge from the 10-year design storm event shall be
used to design channel linings for all channels. The final design of
open channels should be consistent with permissible shear stress (τp) for
the selected channel lining.
Reference should be made to the
publication FHWA-RD-89-110, HEC-15 for a more detailed description of
this analysis. Permissible shear stress for various channel linings are
reported in Table 303-1, Figure 303-1 and Figure 303-2.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-12
January 2011 - FINAL

The process of channel lining design is as follows:
•

Select a lining and determine the permissible shear stress (τ p), in
2
lbs/ft , from Table 303-1, Figure 303-1 and 303-2.

•

Choose an initial Manning‟s "n" value based on engineering
reference books, such as "Open-Channel Hydraulics" by V.T.
Chow.

•

Calculate normal flow depth (D), in ft, at design discharge using
Manning‟s Formula.

•

Compute maximum shear stress (T d), in lbs/ft , at normal depth
as:

2

T d =62.4 D S
where:

(Equation 303.01)

3

Td = maximum shear stress (lbs/ft )
d = normal flow depth (ft)
S = channel gradient (ft/ft)
•

If Td < Tp, then the channel lining is acceptable. Otherwise
consider the following options.
choose a more resistant lining
Use gabions, or other more rigid lining either as full lining or
composite
decrease channel slope
decrease slope in combination with drop structures
increase channel width and/or flatten side slopes

For channel designs incorporating a riprap lining, the following
procedures shall be used. Riprap shall not be placed on a side slope
steeper than 1.5H:1V unless otherwise approved. The toe of the riprap
shall be extended below the channel or ditch bed a minimum distance of
one (1.0) foot or 1.5 D50 (which ever is greater) except where alternate
methods are approved or where the ditch or channel bottom is also
covered with riprap. Filter fabric or a filter course of gravel should be
placed under the stone for larger drainage channels.
For normal channel design riprap can be sized using a method
developed by the Federal Highway Administration and slightly modified
for use here. Equation 303.02 gives the D50 size of stone (in inches) for
riprap placed in a channel with average velocity "v" and depth "D".
3
0.5 1.5
D50 = 0.0136v / D K

(Equation 303.02)

K is the side slope correction factor and can be found from equation
303.03 and shall be used for all side slope placement on slopes steeper
then 4H:1V. For other placement K is equal to one (1.0). θ is equal to
the bank angle with the horizontal (e.g. a 1V:3H slope has a θ value of
18.43 degrees).
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-13
January 2011 - FINAL

K = [1 - ( sin 2 /0.396) ] 0.5

(Equation 303.03)

Equation 303.02 is based on a safety factor of 1.2 and a stone weight of
3
165 lbs/ft . For situations other than a uniform straight channel the D50
size from equation 303.02 should be multiplied by a Stability Correction
Factor found in the table below and used in equation 303.04.
Condition
Stabilit
y Factor
Uniform flow; straight or mildly curving reach
(curve radius/channel topwidth (Rc/T > 30);
little impact from wave action and floating
debris; little uncertainty in design parameters.

1.0

-

1.3

-

1.6

-

1.2
Gradually varied flow; moderate bend curvature
(30 > Rc/T > 10); moderate impact from waves
or debris; moderate uncertainty in design
parameters.

1.6
Approaching rapidly varied flow; sharp bend
curvature (10 > Rc/T); significant impact from
waves or debris, high flow turbulence;
significant uncertainty in design parameters.
2.0

1.5

C SF = (SF/1.2 )

(Equation 303.04)

where:
SF = stability factor
CSF = stability correction factor
3

If the rock density is significantly different from 165 lbs/ft the D50 size
found in equation 303.02 should be multiplied by a specific gravity
correction factor (CSG) found in equation 303.05. SG is the specific
3
gravity of the stone (stone weighing 165 lbs/ft has a specific gravity of
about 2.65).

C SG = [1.65/ S G - 1) ]
where:

1.5

(Equation 303.05)

3

SG = specific gravity of stone, lbs/ft
CSG = specific gravity correction factor

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-14
January 2011 - FINAL

The riprap layer thickness shall be a minimum of D100, and the D85/D15
value shall be less than 4.6. Stone shall be angular in shape. Riprap
shall be placed so as not to be flanked by the flow. The end of the
protected section should be keyed into the bank to prevent scouring
failure. For riprap blanket thicknesses greater than D100 the following
reductions in D50 stone size are allowed:
for blanket thickness equal to 1.5 D100 the D50 size can
be reduced 25 percent.
for blanket thickness equal to 2.0 D100 the D50 size can
be reduced 40 percent.
Channel design must account for riprap thickness in channel excavation.
Channel roughness for riprap lined channels can be
evaluated from (D50 in feet):

n = 0.0395( D 50 )1/6
303.05 Design of Open
Channels Using
Manning's Equation

(Equation 303.06)

Manning's Equation may be used to size proposed open channels where
backwater effects created by obstructions within the channel, or elevated
tailwaters, as examples, are not of concern. Manning's Equation may be
solved directly from its standard form as follows:

Q=

1.49
A R 2/3 S 1/2
n

(Equation 303.07)

and iterated as necessary with various values of channel geometry to
obtain the desired values of flow quantity, velocity, and depth.
Engineering reference books, such as "Open-Channel Hydraulics" by
V.T. Chow may be used as a guide for Manning's "n" values. Figure
303-3 provides examples of typical open channel cross-sectional
configurations and contains the geometric elements of common channel
sections required to determine the channel area (A), wetted perimeter
(Pw), and hydraulic radius (R = A/Pw).

304.01 Introduction

SECTION 304 CULVERTS/BRIDGES
The design methods and criteria outlined or referred to within this section
shall be used in the design and evaluation of culvert systems within the
jurisdiction of this Manual. Computer models such as Federal Highway
Administration's HY-8 may be used to perform culvert/bridge design
computations. The design of culverts can be quite complex. Therefore
only introductory material is presented herein. The designer is referred
to Federal Highway Administration publication Hydraulic Design Series
No.5 (HDS-5), "Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts", Report No.
FHWA-IP-85-15, for a complete treatment. Methods contained in HDS-5
shall be used for the design of culverts.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-15
January 2011 - FINAL

304.02 Allowable
Headwater

Open culverts shall be designed to safely pass the peak discharge
from the 25-year design storm event runoff from the entire
contributing watershed without inundating any portion of the
crossing or approach roadway. An easement must be recorded for
the 25-year storm event flow areas. During the 100-year storm
event, road overflow shall not exceed seven (7) inches above the
centerline crown elevation of the roadway. The 100-year storm
event must be checked to determine the flooded area so that a
building restriction line can be shown on a record plat. The lowest
elevation where water may enter any adjacent structures must be
outside this delineation.

304.03 Open Culverts

Open culverts shall be sized utilizing orifice and weir flow equations
where applicable for individual site conditions and storm frequencies.
Inlet and outlet control nomographs for evaluation of open culvert
hydraulics may also be utilized to evaluate culvert hydraulics, and have
been provided in HDS-5 referred to above.
Open culverts which pose a threat of damage to property or a hindrance
of public services due to backwater and/or road overflow shall be
analyzed utilizing the direct-step backwater method or reservoir flood
routing techniques for determination of the depth of flow over the
culvert/roadway during the peak discharge from the 100-year design
storm event, backwater elevations, downstream flow velocities and
resulting channel scour impacts.

304.04 Culverts
Operating Under Inlet
Control

Inlet control for culverts may occur in two ways:
Unsubmerged: Where the headwater depth is not sufficient to submerge
the top of the culvert and the culvert inlet slope is supercritical. Under
these conditions, the culvert inlet acts like a weir.
Submerged: The headwater submerges the top of the culvert but the
pipe does not flow full. Under these conditions the culvert inlet acts like
an orifice.
In the unsubmerged inlet condition, the equation governing the culvert
capacity is the weir flow equation. In the submerged inlet condition, the
equation governing the culvert capacity is the orifice flow equation.
The nomographsprovided by Hydraulic Design Series No. 5, Report No.
FHWA- Ip-85-15 may be used to determine culvert flow under inlet
control conditions for common culvert materials. It should be noted by
the designer that reinforced concrete pipe arch is not typically available
within the Marion County or surrounding area.

304.05 Culverts
Operating Under Outlet
Control

Outlet control will govern in the design of open culverts when the
headwater is sufficiently deep, the culvert slope sufficiently flat, and the
culvert sufficiently long. There are five basic types of outlet control
culvert flow conditions as depicted in Figure 304-2.
Outlet control flow conditions can be calculated based on energy
balance. The Bernoulli equation may be used to solve the culvert flow
problem. It can be expressed in simplified form by the following

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-16
January 2011 - FINAL

equation:

HW O = T W + H L

(Equation 304.01)

where:
HW O = Headwater depth above the outlet invert (ft)
TW = Tailwater depth above the outlet invert (ft)
HL = The sum of all the energy losses including: entrance loss,
friction loss, exit loss, and losses for grates, bends,
obstructions, etc.
Equation 304.01 is used to calculate the culvert capacity directly when
the culvert is flowing under full flow conditions A, B or C demonstrated by
Figure 304-2. Backwater calculations, beginning at the downstream
tailwater elevation, may be required for conditions D or E. The
downstream water surface elevation is based on the critical depth or
tailwater elevation whichever is greater. Simplifications, modifications
and nomographic solutions to this procedure are available in HDS-5.
304.06 Inlet/Outlet
Losses

Selection of the inlet type is an important part of culvert design,
particularly culverts with inlet control. Hydraulic efficiency and cost can
be significantly affected by inlet conditions. The inlet coefficient Ke, is a
measure of the hydraulic efficiency of the inlet, with lower values
indicating greater efficiency. All methods described in this chapter,
directly or indirectly, use inlet coefficients. Typical inlet coefficients are
given in Table 304-1.

304.07 Outlet
Protection/Energy
Dissipation

Energy dissipaters shall be employed whenever the velocity of flows
leaving a storm water management facility exceeds the erosive velocity
of the downstream channel system. The procedure presented in this
section is taken from USDA, NRCS (SCS, 1975). Two sets of curves,
one for minimum and one for maximum tailwater conditions, are used to
determine the apron size and the median riprap diameter, D 50. If tailwater
conditions are known, or if both minimum and maximum conditions may
occur, the apron should be designed to meet criteria for both. Although
the design curves are based on round pipes flowing full, they can be
used for partially full pipes and box culverts. The design procedure
consists of the following steps:
1.

If possible, determine tailwater conditions for the channel. If
tailwater is less than one-half the discharge flow depth (pipe
diameter if flowing full), minimum tailwater conditions exist and
the curves in Figure 304-3 apply. Otherwise, maximum tailwater
conditions exist and the curves in Figure 304-4 should be used.

2.

Determine the correct apron length and median riprap diameter,
d50, using the appropriate curves from Figure 304-3 and 304-4. If
tailwater conditions are uncertain, find the values for both
minimum and maximum conditions and size the apron as shown
in Figure 304-5.
a.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

For pipes flowing full:
Use the depth of flow, d, which equals the pipe diameter,
in feet, and design discharge, in cfs, to obtain the apron
length, La, and median riprap diameter, d50, from the
appropriate curves.
page 3-17
January 2011 - FINAL

b.

For pipes flowing partially full:
Use the depth of flow, d, in feet, and velocity, v, in
feet/second. On the lower portion of the appropriate
figure, find the intersection of the d and v curves, then
find the riprap median diameter, d50, from the scale on
the right. From the lower d and v intersection point,
move vertically to the upper curves until intersecting the
curve for the correct flow depth, d. Find the minimum
apron length, La, from the scale on the left.

SECTION 305 STORM DRAINS/INLETS
305.01 Introduction
Storm drain piping systems are networks of storm pipes, catch basins,
manholes, inlets and outfalls designed and constructed to convey
surface water runoff. The hydraulic analysis of flow within storm drain
piping systems typically involves analysis of flow caused by the natural
forces of gravity ("gravity flow"), and hydraulic analysis of systems under
pressure flow conditions.
305.02 Easements

Minimum easement widths are as provided below. More stringent
requirements for stormwater easement size and additional covenants
may be made by the Department based upon individual site conditions.
1. Storm Drains
Depth of Drain From
Diamet
er of
Minimu
m
Finish Grade To Crown

Storm
Drain
Easem
ent
Width

3' or less
15"

or

less
15'
More than 3'
15"

or

less
20'
3' or less
than

Greater
15"
20'

More than 3'
than
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

Greater
15"

page 3-18
January 2011 - FINAL

25'

305.03 Storm Drain
Pipe Design

The use of Manning's equation shall be considered acceptable for
determination of storm drain pipe sizes when the design discharge
is ninety percent (90 %) or less of the capacity of a commercially
available pipe as computed by Manning’s equation. The storm
drain system must be capable of passing the 10-year storm event
with free water surface elevations below the crown of the pipe.
Design computations of storm drain pipe systems using the Rational
Formula and Manning's equation shall be submitted with the stormwater
permit application on the Storm Drain Flow Tabulation Form provided by
Figure 305-1 or by suitable computer program output listing giving similar
information. Typical Manning's "n" values for standard storm drain
materials are provided in Table 305-1. Head loss computations shall
be submitted with the stormwater permit application on the form
provided by Figure 305-2.
Proper operations and maintenance practices for all storm drain
and inlet structures and their appurtenances will be identified in the
Operations and Maintenance Manual, as required in Section 102.06.

305.04 Backwater
Method for Pipe System
Analysis

For hydraulic analysis of existing or proposed storm drains which
possess submerged outfalls, a more sophisticated design/analysis
methodology than Manning's equation will be required.
Various
computer modeling programs are available for analysis of storm drains
under these conditions. These models must be approved by the
Department.
The backwater analysis method provides a more accurate estimate of
pipe flow by calculating individual head losses in pipe systems which are
surcharged and/or have submerged outlets. These head losses are
added to a known downstream water surface elevation to give a design
water surface elevation for a given flow at the desired upstream location.
Total head losses may be determined as follows:
Total head loss = frictional loss + manhole loss + velocity head loss
+
junction loss
Frictional loss is computed from Manning's Equation expressed in the
following form:

2

(nv)
Sf =
2.22 R4/3

(Equation 305.01)

where:
Sf = head loss per lineal foot of drain due to friction
n = Manning's "n"
v = Flow velocity in ft/sec = Q/A
R = Hydraulic radius, ft. A/Pw
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-19
January 2011 - FINAL

The remaining components of total head loss may be computed using
standard equations, or they may be estimated using graphical solutions.
Figures 305-3 and 305-4 present graphical solutions to losses in junction
structures and in bends based on information provided by Baltimore
County, MD. The curves are labeled "A", "B", "C" and "D". They are
based on full flow in the pipes. The total loss at any junction is the sum of
the applicable types of loss.
The "A" loss is the entrance or exit loss. The larger of the velocities
entering or leaving the structure is used to calculate the loss. The "B"
loss is not really a loss but an expedient to handle the change in velocity
head during hydraulic grade line calculations.
It is always the
downstream velocity head minus the upstream head with the algebraic
sign preserved. Where the upstream velocity head is greater than the
downstream head the apparent gains may be used to offset other head
losses in the structure. However, the total head loss may not be less
than zero. The "C" loss represents the bend loss and is based on the
higher of the two velocities. The "D" loss is the junction or combined flow
losses and relates only to the incoming velocity and varies with the ratio
of the Q3 and Q1 as depicted in the Figure. Intermediate values of
Q3/Q1 may be interpolated.
For cut-ins, wyes and preformed fittings use the full value of "B",
"C" and "D" losses.
For manholes and inlets use the full value of all four types of
losses for pipe diameters 30" and under. For larger pipe
diameters omit the "A" loss since it is accounted for in the "C"
loss.
For bends use the full value of the "B", "C" and "D" curves and
increase the losses for special cases as stated on the figures.
For junction chambers use the full values of the "B" and "C"
losses; use 50% of the indicated "D" loss. Increase the "C" loss
50% for junction chambers with manholes.

305.05 Minimum
Velocity

Minimum storm drain flowing velocity for full pipe flow shall be 2.5
feet-per-second (fps). The minimum slope for storm drains equal to
or larger than 48 inches in diameter shall be 0.001 feet/foot.

305.06 Non-Gravity
Flow Systems

Stormwater facilities shall be designed to convey stormwater runoff
by gravity flow unless otherwise approved by the department.
Stormwater control systems that do not satisfy this goal would include
stormwater pumping systems, and mechanical sluice gates, as
examples.
Design options that do not rely upon gravity flow may be approved as a
variance of Chapter 561 of Indianapolis City Code, with documentation to
the Department of the infeasibility and/or undue hardship required to
install available gravity flow design options. As a minimum, the following
additional information shall also be submitted with the stormwater permit
application for non-gravity flow systems:
1.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

Identification of a lifetime maintenance schedule for the
non-gravity flow system.
page 3-20
January 2011 - FINAL

2.

Covenants attached to the property deed which place sole
responsibility for maintenance of the non-gravity flow system with
the current property owner of record.

3.

An indemnification of the City relative to the non gravity-flow
design.

Pumping systems, where approved, shall be designed using the
hydraulic methods that apply to storm drain pump systems, set forth
within standard engineering texts. Non-gravity flow systems shall be
designed such that should the system fail, damage to adjoining
properties and facilities will be limited to the site only.

305.07 Inlet Grate
Design

The design methodology used to compute the flow capacity of storm
drain inlet grates shall utilize orifice and weir flow equations outlined by
these Standards, with consideration given to grate open areas, and flow
dimensions provided by the casting manufacturer. The grate casting
shall provide sufficient grate open area to convey the 10-Year storm
event. The potential maximum depth to which stormwater may
pond above the inlet grate must not threaten surrounding
permanent structures and public facilities. Emergency overflow
points shall be provided for inlets placed in a sumped condition.
Roll curb and gutter inlet grates as a general rule shall be placed at
a maximum interval of four-hundred (400) feet, provided a minimum
10-Year design storm flow capacity has also been provided.
Conformance with additional requirements for design and placement of
storm drain inlets within public streets and roads as set forth by the
Indianapolis Department of Transportation will be required.

305.08 Gutterline
Hydraulic Evaluation

Inlets in roadway gutter lines must be spaced to prevent flow from
entering public road intersections. In addition, inlets should be
spaced intermediately in residential street gutter lines to allow one
lane (based on the lane width of the road) of traffic to remain open
during the 100-year storm event. Multi-lane facilities may have one
travel lane on each side of the roadway flooded during the 100-year
storm event. The design storm for all of the conditions is the 10year storm event. The allowable minor storm capacity of each street
section may be calculated for flow in triangular gutter sections using the
modified Manning's formula as follows:

Q=

0.56 1.67 0.5 2.67
SX S T
n

(Equation 305.02)

where:
Q = discharge, cfs
SX = cross slope of the pavement (ft/ft)
T = top width of water from vertical gutter face
extending into the road, ft
S = longitudinal grade of street (ft/ft)
n = Manning's roughness coefficient
City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-21
January 2011 - FINAL

The above equation may also be solved utilizing the nomograph
provided in Figure 305-5.
Further information on other gutter
configurations can be found in Federal Highway Administration,
"Drainage of Highway Pavements", FHWA-TS-84-202, Hydraulic
Engineering Circular No. 12.

City of Indianapolis
Stormwater Specifications Manual

page 3-22
January 2011 - FINAL

DETENTION/RETENTION DESIGN SUMMARY REPORT
Project:

Principal Spillway Information:
Description:

Culvert
Pipe Size (in):

Pipe
Length (ft):

Inlet Elevation:

Outlet
Elevation:

Barrel and Riser
Barrel Size (in):

Barrel
Length (ft):

Barrel Inlet Elev:

Barrel

Outlet

Elev:
Riser Size (in):

Riser
Top Elev:

Low Flow Orifice:
Orifice Size (in):

Orifice Elev:

Weir Length (ft):

Weir
Overtopping Elev:

Emergency Spillway Information:
Description:
Spillway Width (ft):

Spillway
Elevation:

Protection Type:

Top

of

Embankment Elev:

STAGE-STORAGE-DISCHARGE RELATION
ELEVATION (ft)

DISCHARGE (cfs)

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

AREA (acre)

VOLUME (acre-feet)

Appendix page A3-23
January 2011 - FINAL

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF DESIGN PROCESS:

FIGURE 302-01: Retention/Detention Design Summary Report

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-24
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 302-02: Modified Rational Formula Design

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-25
January 2011 - FINAL

TABLE 303-01: Summary of Shear Stress For Various Protection Measures

Protective Cover

Underlying Soil

T
2
(lb/ft )

Class A Vegetation

3.7

Class B Vegetation

2.1

Class C Vegetation

1.0

Class D Vegetation

0.60

Class E Vegetation

0.35

Bare Soil
Hydroseeded
Woven Paper
Jute Net
Single Fiberglass
Double Fiberglass
Straw with Net
Curled Wood Mat
Plain Grass, Good Cover
Plain Grass, Average Cover
Plain Grass, Poor Cover
Grass, Reinforced with Nylon
Dycel with Grass
Petraflex with Grass
Armorflex with Grass
Dymex with Grass
Grasscrete

(See Figures 303-1 and 303-2)

Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay

0.10
0.15
0.45
0.60
0.85
1.45
1.55
2.00
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

Gravel
D50 = 1 in.
D50 = 2 in.

0.40
0.80

Rock
D50 = 6 in.
D50 = 12 in.

2.50
5.00

6 in. Gabions
4 in. Geoweb
Soil Cement (8% Cement)
Dycel without Grass

Type I
Type I
Type I
Type I

10
> 45
>7

Petraflex without Grass
Armorflex without Grass

Type I
Type I

>32
12 - 20

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-26
January 2011 - FINAL

TABLE 303-01: Summary of Shear Stress For Various Protection Measures

Protective Cover

Underlying Soil

T
2
(lb/ft )

Enkamat w/3 in Asphalt
Enkamat w/1 in Asphalt

Type I
Type I

13 - 16
<5

Armorflex Glass 30 with longitudinal
and lateral cables, no grass

Type I

> 34

Dycell 100, longitudinal cables, cells
filled with mortar

Type I

< 12

Concrete Construction blocks, granular
filter underlayer

Type I

> 20

Wedge-shaped blocks with drainage
slot

Type I

> 25

Note: ft/s x 0.03048 = m/s

2

lb/ft x 47.87 = N/m

2

Source: FHWA-RD-89-110, HEC-15

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-27
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 303-01: Permissible Shear Stress - Non-Cohesive Soils
Source: FHWA-RD-89-110, HEC-15

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-28
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 303-02: Permissible Shear Stress - Cohesive Soils
Source: FHWA-RD-89-110, HEC-15

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-29
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 303-03: Typical Open Channel Cross-Sectional Configuration

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-30
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 304-01: Culvert Rating Computation Form

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-31
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 304-02: Culvert Flow Regimes

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-32
January 2011 - FINAL

TABLE 304-01: Inlet Coefficients
Type of Structure and Design of Entrance
Pipe, Concrete
Projecting from fill, socket end (groove-end)
Projecting from fill, square cut end
Headwall or headwall and wingwalls
Socket end of pipe (groove-end)
Square-edge
Rounded [radius = 1/12 (D)]
Mitered to conform to fill slope
*End-Section conforming to fill slope
o
o
Beveled edges, 33.7 or 45 bevels
Side- or slope-tapered inlet
Pipe, or Pipe-Arch, Corrugated Metal
Projecting from fill (no headwall)
Headwall or headwall and wingwalls square-edge
Mitered to fill slope, paved or unpaved slope
*End-Section conforming to fill slope
o
o
Beveled edges, 33.7 or 45 bevels
Side- or slope-tapered inlet
Box, Reinforced Concrete
Headwall parallel to embankment (no wingwalls)
Square-edged on 3 edges
Rounded on 3 edges to radius of [1/12 (D)]
or beveled edges on 3 sides
o
o
Wingwalls at 30 to 75 to barrel
Square-edged at crown
Crown edge rounded to radius of [1/12(D)]
or beveled top edge
o
o
Wingwalls at 10 or 25 to barrel
Square-edged at crown
Wingwalls parallel (extension of sides)
Square-edged at crown
Side- or slope-tapered inlet

Coefficients Ke
0.2
0.5
0.2
0.5
0.2
0.7
0.5
0.2
0.2
0.9
0.5
0.7
0.5
0.2
0.2

0.5
0.2
0.4
0.2
0.5
0.7
0.2

*Note: End Sections conforming to fill slope, made of either metal or concrete, are
the sections commonly available from manufacturers. From limited hydraulic tests
they are equivalent in operation to a headwall in both inlet and outlet control. Some
end sections, incorporating a closed taper in their design have a superior hydraulic
performance.
Junction Type
trunkline no bends at junction
trunkline with 45-degree bend
trunkline with 90-degree bend
trunkline with 1 small lateral
trunkline with 1 large lateral
2 equal entrance lines at 90-degrees
2 equal entrance lines at > 90-degrees
3 or more entrance lines

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Ke Value
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0

Appendix page A3-33
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 304-03: Outlet Protection with Minimum Tailwater Condition
SOURCE: North Carolina Erosion & Sediment Control Planning & Design Manual, 09/01/88

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-34
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 304-04: Outlet Protection with Maximum Tailwater Condition
SOURCE: North Carolina Erosion & Sediment Control Planning & Design Manual, 09/01/88

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-35
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 304-05: Riprap Apron Schematic for Uncertain Tailwater Conditions
SOURCE: Charlotte Mecklenburg Storm Water Design Manual, 07/08/93

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-36
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 305-01: Storm Drain Flow Tabulation Form

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-37
January 2011 - FINAL

TABLE 305-01: Manning's "n" Values for Pipes

Pipe Material

Manning's "n"

Concrete Pipe

0.012

Concrete Boxes

0.012

Corrugated Metal Pipe or Pipe Arch
2 2/3" x ½" Helical Corrugation
2 2/3" x ½" Annular Corrugation
15" to 36"
42" to 96"
3" x 1" Corrugation
5" x 1" Corrugation

0.022

Structural Plate Pipe or Pipe Arch
6" x 2" Corrugation
9" x 2 ½" Corrugation

0.025
0.024
0.027
0.025

0.033
0.035

Spiral Ribbed Corrugated Metal Pipe
(7 ½" x 3/4" x 3/4")
Smooth High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) and
smooth lined interior Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)
Smooth Interior Corrugated HDPE

0.013

Ductile Iron Pipe

0.012

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

0.012
0.012

Appendix page A3-38
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 305-02: Headloss Computations

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-39
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 305-03: Manhole Loss

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-40
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 305-04: Junction Loss

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-41
January 2011 - FINAL

FIGURE 305-05: Gutterline Capacity Nomograph

City of Indianapolis
Storm Water Specifications Manual

Appendix page A3-42
January 2011 - FINAL



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 1/5/15
                              SECTION 26 05 33

                   RACEWAYS AND BOXES FOR ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals shown, specified, and required to furnish and install conduit and fittings to form complete, coordinated and grounded raceway systems.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Retain paragraph "2" below when conduit routings are not detailed on the Drawings.  The level of detail may vary with project and Owner requirements; however, detailed routings are usually not included for Work within buildings, but should be included for exterior areas and tanks.
When specific, detailed conduit routings for various systems within buildings and other areas are not be shown on the Drawings, Contractor shall establish routings based on single-line, riser, and interconnection diagrams and other information on the Drawings.  Contractor shall provide for the proper installation of conduits in each system.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Edit conduit types and application below to suit the Project.  
Conduit types and the installation methods shall comply with the following, unless otherwise shown or indicated in the Contract Documents:
Use steel conduit (rigid steel or intermediate metallic) for exposed indoor conduit runs in non-corrosive areas.  
Use PVC-coated rigid steel or aluminum conduit for exposed interior or exterior conduit runs in hazardous, wet, and corrosive locations.
Use PVC-coated rigid steel conduit for individual conduits direct-buried in the ground.
Use Schedule 40 PVC or steel conduit for concrete-encased duct bank runs.
Use steel or Schedule 40 PVC conduit for conduit runs embedded in structural concrete slabs.  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Edit paragraph "f" below to suit the project.  Coordinate with section 26 29 23, Low-Voltage Variable Frequency Drives, and other "noise sensitive" requirements and edit accordingly.  Insert at (--1--) either "PVC-coated rigid steel" or "aluminum" as required.  Delete paragraph "f" if not required.
Use steel conduit for industrial control  systems (ICS), system control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, and communication systems, regardless of the installation.  Conduit shall be (--1--) in hazardous, wet, and corrosive locations.
Coordination:
Conduit runs shown are diagrammatic.  Coordinate conduit installation with piping, ductwork, light fixtures, and other systems and equipment and locate to avoid interferences.
For conduits to be embedded in concrete slabs, confirm adequate slab thickness and coordinate location of conduits with placement of reinforcing steel, waterstops, expansion joints, and other features of the concrete slab.
Related Sections:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: List below only sections covering products, construction, and equipment specifically identified in this section and specified in another section and directly referenced in this specification.  Do not list Administrative and Procedural Division 01 Sections.  
Section 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork
Section 32 12 16, Asphalt Paving.
Section 26 05 05, General Provisions for Electrical Systems.
Section 26 05 29, Hangers and Supports for Electrical Systems.
Section 26 05 53, Identification for Electrical Systems.
REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Retain applicable standards and add others as required.
Standards referenced in this Section are:
AASHTO, Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges.
ANSI C80.1, Standard for Rigid Electrical Steel Conduit (ERSC).
ANSI/NEMA FB1, Fittings, Cast Metal Boxes, and Conduit Bodies for Conduit, Electrical Metallic Tubing and Cable.
NEMA TC3, Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Fittings for Use with Rigid PVC Conduit and Tubing.
UL 514B, Conduit, Tubing, and Cable Fittings.
UL 886, Outlet Boxes and Fittings for Use in Hazardous (Classified) Locations.
QUALITY ASSURANCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Retain applicable regulatory requirements and add others as required.
Regulatory Requirements: Comply with the following:
NEC Article 344, Rigid Metal Conduit.
NEC Article 350, Liquid-Tight Flexible Metal Conduit.
NEC Article 352, Rigid Nonmetallic Conduit.
NEC Article 358, Electrical Metallic Tubing.
Items provided under this section shall be listed or labeled by UL or other Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL).
Term "NRTL" shall be as defined in OSHA Regulation 1910.7.
Terms "listed" and "labeled" shall be as defined in National Electrical Code, Article 100.
Regulatory  Requirements:
National Electrical Code: Components and installation shall comply with NFPA 70.
Comply with NECA "Standard of Installation."
SUBMITTALS
Submit the following: 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Include paragraph "1." below for projects requiring layout coordination between electrical Work and other MEP  or process Work, delete if not applicable.
Shop Drawings:
Assembly details of conduit racks and other conduit support systems.  
Layout drawings showing proposed routing of exposed conduits, conduits embedded in structural concrete, and conduits directly buried in the ground.  Shop Drawings shall show locations of pull and junction boxes and penetrations in walls and floors.  Shop Drawings of embedded conduits shall include cross-sections showing thickness of concrete slabs and locations of conduits relative to reinforcing steel, waterstops, and other features of the slab.
Product Data: 
Manufacturer's catalog cuts and product data for conduit, fittings, and appurtenances.
Manufacturer's Instructions: 
When requested by Engineer, provide copies of manufacturer's recommendations for handling and installing products.
Site Quality Control Submittals: 
When requested by Engineer, provide copies of results of specified Site quality control testing.
Record Drawings: 
Show actual routing of exposed and concealed conduit runs in record documents in accordance with Section 01 78 39, Project Record Documents.
PRODUCTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Edit the conduit types below to suit the project.  Retain applicable paragraphs and delete inapplicable provisions.
METAL CONDUIT AND TUBING
Rigid Steel Conduit, Elbows, and Couplings:
Material: Rigid, heavy-wall, mild steel, hot-dip galvanized, smooth interior, tapered threads and carefully reamed ends; 3/4-inch NPS minimum size.
Galvanized Rigid Steel Conduit: ANSI C80.1.
PVC-coated Rigid Steel Conduit, Elbows, and Couplings:
Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
Robroy Industries.
No "Or Equal"
Material: Rigid, heavy-wall, mild steel, hot-dip galvanized, smooth urethane interior coating, tapered threads, carefully reamed ends, 3/4-inch NPS minimum size with factory exterior coating of 40-mil thick PVC.
Color: Color of coating shall be the same on all conduit and fittings.
Plastic-Coated Steel Conduit and Fittings: NEMA RN 1.
Aluminum Conduit, Elbows, and Couplings:
Material: Rigid, heavy-wall aluminum, smooth interior, tapered threads and carefully reamed ends; 3/4-inch NPS minimum size.
Rigid Aluminum Conduit: ANSI C80.5.
METALLIC FITTINGS
Metallic Conduit Fittings, and Outlet Bodies:
Material and Construction: Cast gray iron alloy, cast malleable iron or aluminum bodies and covers consistent with conduit material.  Units shall be threaded type with five full threads.  Materials shall comply with ANSI/NEMA FB1 and be listed by UL.  Do not use "LB" fittings.  Use type "LBD" fittings where use of fittings is unavoidable.
Use: Conduits shall be gasketed and watertight in hazardous, wet, and corrosive locations.
The use of threadless couplings and connectors is prohibited. 
PVC-coated Conduit Fittings, and Outlet Bodies:
Material and Construction: Cast gray iron alloy, cast malleable iron bodies and covers with factory coating of 40-mil thick PVC and smooth urethane interior coating.  Units shall be threaded type with five full threads.  Material shall comply with ANSI/NEMA FB1  and be listed by UL.  Do not use "LB" fittings.  Use type "LBD" fittings where use of fittings is unavoidable.
Use: Provide PVC-coated or aluminum conduit fittings and outlet bodies in hazardous, wet, and corrosive locations.  Fitting material shall be consistent with conduit material.
Conduit Hubs:
Material: Threaded conduit hub, vibration-proof, weatherproof, with captive O-ring seal, zinc metal with insulated throat and bonding screw.
Use: Provide for all conduit terminations to boxes, cabinets, and other enclosures in areas designated as wet locations.
PVC-coated Conduit Hubs:
Manufacturers: Provide products one of the following:
Robroy Industries.
 No "Or Equal"
Material: Threaded conduit hub, vibration-proof, weatherproof, with captive O-ring seal, zinc metal with insulated throat and bonding screw, and factory coating of 40-mil thick PVC and smooth urethane interior coating.
Use: Provide for PVC-coated steel or aluminum conduit terminations to boxes, cabinets, and other enclosures in areas designated as corrosive location.
Conduit Bushings and Locknuts:	
Insulated Bushings: Malleable iron body with plastic liner.  Threaded type with steel clamping screw.  Provide with bronze grounding lug, as required.
Locknuts: Steel for sizes 3/4-inch through two-inch diameter and malleable iron for sizes 2.5-inch through four-inch diameter.
Use: Provide for all conduit terminations to boxes, cabinets and other enclosures except threaded type in areas designated as dusty locations.
Thruwall Seals
For new construction through exterior subsurface walls and exterior concrete walls. 
For new construction passing through concrete floors and floor slabs.
For conduits passing through new exterior masonry block walls or through core-drilled holes in existing exterior subsurface walls, exterior concrete walls, floor slabs ,and roof slabs, and for conduits passing through existing interior concrete walls or floors and interior masonry block walls.
Manufacturer: Provide -  one of the following:
Type CSMI sealing bushing at the inside of the structure and Type CSMC sealing bushing at the outside of the structure by O-Z/Gedney. 
Or equal.
NONMETALLIC CONDUIT AND FITTINGS
Non-metallic Conduit and Fittings: Nonmetallic  Conduit
Rigid Nonmetallic Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Conduit:
NEMA TC 2, Schedule 40 or 80 PVC.Rated for 90 degrees C, complying with UL 514B and 651.
Elbows and Fittings shall comply with NEMA TC3
Match conduit to type of material
Fittings: Form elbows, bodies, terminations, expansions, and fasteners of same material and manufacturer as base conduit.  Provide cement by same manufacturer as base conduit.
FLEXIBLE CONDUIT
Flexible Conduit (Non-hazardous Areas and Class 1, Division 2, Hazardous Areas):
Material: Flexible galvanized steel core with smooth, abrasion- - resistant, liquid-tight, polyvinyl chloride cover.  Continuous copper ground built in for sizes 3/4-inch through 1.25-inch.  Material shall be UL-listed.
Flexible Conduit (Class 1, Group D, Division 1, Hazardous Areas):
Material: Flexible brass inner core with bronze outer braid and protective neoprene plastic coating.  Steel, brass, or bronze end fittings.  Minimum of 12 inches long.
Flexible Metal Conduit: Zinc-coated steel.
Liquidtight Flexible Metal Conduit: Flexible steel conduit with PVC jacket.
FLEXIBLE CONDUIT FITTINGS:
Metallic Flexible conduit fittings
Material and Construction: 
Malleable iron with cadmium finish.  Fittings shall adapt the conduit to standard threaded connections, shall have an inside diameter not less than that of the corresponding standard conduit size and shall be UL listed. 
Conduit fittings shall be insulated throat type. Conduit shall be liquidtight with one piece sealing "O" rings with connectors when entering boxes or enclosures
Use: Provide on flexible conduit in non-hazardous and Class 1, Division 2 hazardous areas.
PVC-Coated Flexible Conduit Fittings:
Material and Construction:
Malleable iron with standard finish and 40-mil PVC exterior coating. Fittings shall adapt the conduit to standard threaded connections, and shall have an inside diameter not less than that of the corresponding standard conduit size.
Conduit fittings shall be insulated throat type. Conduit shall be liquidtight with one piece sealing "O" rings with connectors when entering boxes or enclosures
 WIREWAYS
Material: Sheet metal sized and shaped as indicated.
Fittings and Accessories: Include couplings, offsets, elbows, expansion joints, adapters, hold-down straps, end caps, and other fittings to match and mate with wireway as required for complete system.
Select features where not otherwise indicated, as required to complete wiring system and to comply with NEC.
Wireway Covers:
Hinged type for dry locations.
Bolted cover with gasket for wet locations.
Finish: Manufacturer's standard enamel finish unless other wise noted.
PULL JUNCTION, AND TERMINAL BOXES: 
General  -  Applicable to All Boxes: 
Description and Performance Criteria:
Boxes shall be appropriate for each location in accordance with NEMA requirements and as required for area classifications specified in Section 26 05 05, General Provisions for Electrical Systems.
For flush-mounted pullboxes in slabs or pavement potentially subject to vehicular traffic, boxes and covers shall be constructed for H-20 loading in accordance with AASHTO Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges.
Materials: Pull boxes embedded in concrete slabs shall be polymer concrete.
Terminal strips and terminal blocks in terminal boxes shall be mounted on terminal box sub-panels.
Identification: Boxes shall be identified in accordance with Section 26 05 53, Identification for Electrical Systems.
Materials and Construction  -  Dusty Locations:
Material: NEMA 12 or fiberglass.
Gasket: Oil-resistant gasket.
Access: Lift-off hinges and quick-release latches.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Edit paragraph "C", below, to suit the Project.
Materials and Construction - Wet, Corrosive, or Hazardous Locations:
Material:
Pull boxes in wet, corrosive, or outdoor areas shall be NEMA 4X stainless steel. 
Boxes for areas classified as hazardous locations, where required by NEC, shall be NEMA 7 explosion-proof and comply with UL 886. 
In corrosive locations, where the conduit system is PVC-coated, boxes shall be cast metal with factory-applied 40-mil PVC coating, Type 316 stainless steel, or non-metallic thermoplastic or fiberglass reinforced plastic material.
Gasket: 
Provide neoprene gaskets for wet and corrosive locations.  
Gaskets shall be an approved type designed for the purpose.  Improvised gaskets are not acceptable.
Access: Stainless steel cover bolts.
Features:
External mounting lugs.
Drilled and tapped conduit holes.
Boxes where conduits enter building or structure below grade shall have 1/4-inch drain hole at bottom of the box.
Provide threaded connections for explosion proof boxes.
Terminal Blocks:
Material and Construction:
NEMA-rated nylon modular terminal blocks.
600-volt rated.
Terminals shall be screwed type with permanently affixed numeric identifiers beside each connection.
Power terminals shall be copper and rated for the circuit ampacity. 
ACCESSORIES
Fasteners: To the extent possible, fastener material shall be consistent with conduit material.  For PVC-coated rigid steel conduit runs, fasteners shall have factory applied PVC coating or be stainless steel.  Fasten raceway systems to supporting structures using the following:
To Wood: Wood screws.
To Hollow Masonry Units: Toggle bolts and/or hollow wall anchors
To Brick Masonry: Expansion bolts by Price, or equal.
To Concrete: Anchors shall be expansion anchors 
To Steel: Beam clamps in accordance with Section 26 05 29, Hangers and Supports for Electrical Systems.
Duct Sealing Compound
Soft, fibrous, slightly tacky, non-hardening sealing compound.
Remains workable at all temperatures.
Compound shall not slump at temperature of 300°F and shall readily adhere to clean surfaces of plastic ducts, metallic conduits, conduit coatings, concrete, masonry, lead, cable sheaths, cable jackets, insulation materials, and common metals.
Conduit Sealing Bushings: Factory-fabricated watertight conduit sealing bushing assemblies suitable for sealing around conduit passing through concrete floors, walls, or boxes. Construct seals with steel sleeve, malleable iron body, neoprene sealing grommets or rings, metal pressure rings, pressure clamps, and cap screws.
Cable Supports for Vertical Conduit: Factory-fabricated assembly consisting of threaded body and insulating wedging plug for nonarmored electrical cables in riser conduits. Provide plugs with number and size of conductor gripping holes as required to suit individual risers.
Pipe Sleeves: Provide pipe sleeves of one of following:
Sheet Metal: Fabricate from galvanized sheet metal; round tube closed with snaplock joint, welded spiral seams, or welded longitudinal joint. Fabricate sleeves from following gauge metal for sleeve diameter noted:
3 in. and smaller: 20 ga.
4 in. to 6 in.: 16 ga.
Over 6 in.: 14 ga.
Steel Pipe: Fabricate from Schedule 40 galvanized steel pipe.
Plastic Pipe: Fabricate from Schedule 80 PVC plastic pipe.
FIRE RESISTANT JOINT SEALERS
Two-part, foamed-in-place, silicone sealant formulated for use in through-penetration fire-stopping around cables, conduit, pipes, and duct penetrations through fire-rated walls and floors.
Sealants and accessories shall have fire-resistance ratings indicated, as established by testing identical assemblies in accordance with ASTM E 814, by Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or other testing and inspection agency acceptable to authorities having jurisdiction.
IDENTIFICATION
Conduit Labels:
Provide conduit labels in accordance with Section 26 05 53, Identification for Electrical Systems.
Warning Tape:
Provide warning tape in accordance with Section 26 05 53, Identification for Electrical Systems.
EXECUTION
INSPECTION 

Examine conditions under which the Work will be performed and notify Engineer in writing of conditions detrimental to proper and timely completion of the Work.  Do not proceed with installation until unsatisfactory conditions are corrected.
INSTALLATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Edit below to suit the Project.
Supports:
Rigidly support conduits by clamps, hangers, or Unistrut-type channels.  Conduit supports and accessories shall be in accordance with Section 26 05 29, Hangers and Supports for Electrical Systems.
Support single conduits by means of one-hole pipe clamps in combination with one-screw back plates, to raise conduits from the support surface.  Support multiple runs of conduits on trapeze type hangers.
Fastenings: Fasten raceway systems rigidly and neatly to supporting structures using specified materials.
Exposed Conduit:
Install exposed raceways parallel to or at right angles to nearby surfaces or structural members, and follow surface contours as much as practical.
Mount exposed horizontal runs as high above floor as possible, and in no case lower than 7 ft above floors, walkways, or platforms in passage areas.
Run parallel or banked raceways together, on common supports where practical.
Make bends in parallel or banked runs from same center line to make bends parallel. Use factory elbows only where they can be installed parallel; otherwise, provide field bends for parallel raceways.
Where possible, run in groups.  Provide conduit racks of suitable width, length, and height, arranged to suit field conditions.  Provide support every ten feet, minimum.
Install on structural members in protected locations.
Locate clear of interferences.
Provide six inches of clearance from hot fluid lines and 1/4-inch from walls.
Install vertical runs plumb.  Unsecured drop length shall not exceed 12 feet.
Use temporary closures to prevent foreign matter from entering raceway.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: The following conduit embedment criteria is intended for Contractor's use when conduit embedment is desirable and the conduit routings are not detailed on the drawings.  The criteria are based on worst-case structural factors.  When embedded conduit routing is included on a project, check with the structural Engineer to determine the actual criteria for the project.
Conduit Embedded in Structural Concrete:
Run embedded conduit in structural concrete in center of slabs and walls and above waterstops.  Conduit connections shall be made watertight.
Before placing concrete, arrange for observation of conduit installation by RPR or Engineer and make necessary conduit location measurements and provide required information on record documents.
Confirm that concrete thickness is sufficient for embedding the quantity of conduits intended.  Unless specifically shown or indicated otherwise, embedded conduits shall be in accordance with the following criteria:
Minimum concrete thickness shall be as follows:
For concrete 16 inches thick and less, minimum concrete thickness shall be 11.5 inches plus the depth of largest conduit assembly.  Conduit assembly depth shall be from the top of uppermost conduit to bottom of lowest conduit.
For concrete greater than 16 inches thick, minimum concrete thickness shall be 13.5 inches plus depth of largest conduit assembly.
For concrete at foundation slabs, provide a one inch additional to minimum concrete thicknesses specified.
Conduit spacing shall be as follows:
Two adjacent conduits shall be separated by center-to-center distance of three times the outer diameter of larger conduit 
When conduits cross at a point, conduits may be in direct contact and angle of cross shall be 45 degrees or greater.  Conduits may also cross within the vertical spacing of multi-conduit layer assembly.
When conduits cross structural expansion joint, two adjacent conduits shall be separated by center-to-center distance of three times the outer diameter of conduit fitting of the larger conduit 
Underground Conduits:
Install individual, underground conduits minimum of 36 inches below grade, unless otherwise shown or indicated.
Perform excavation, bedding, backfilling, and surface restoration, including pavement replacement where required, in accordance with Section 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork, and Section 32 16 00, Asphalt Paving.
Install traceable warning tape 12 inches below finished grade over buried conduits. 
Installation shall be in accordance with requirements of section 26 05 43 Underground Ducts and Raceways for Electrical Systems
Empty Conduits:
Install nylon pull wire in each empty conduit and cap conduits not terminating in boxes with permanent fittings designed for the purpose.
Install two spare 1 in. conduits from top of each flush mounted panelboard to area above ceiling for future use. On flush mounted panelboards located on first and higher level floors, provide two spare 1 in. conduits from bottom of panelboard to ceiling area of floor below for future use.
Field Bends: No indentations.  Diameter of conduit shall not vary more than 15 percent at bends.
Joints:
Apply conductive compound to joints before assembly.
Make up joints tight and ground thoroughly.
Use standard tapered pipe threads for conduit and fittings.
Cut conduit ends square and ream to prevent damaging wire and cable.
Use full threaded couplings.  Split couplings are not allowed.
Use strap wrenches and vises to install conduit.  Replace conduit with wrench marks.
Apply zinc-rich paint to exposed threads and other areas of galvanized conduit system where base metal is exposed.
Terminations:
Install insulated bushings on conduits entering boxes or cabinets, except when threaded hubs are used.
Provide locknuts on both inside and outside of enclosure, except when threaded hubs are used.
Use of bushings in lieu of locknuts is not allowed.
Install conduit hubs on conduits entering boxes or cabinets in wet and corrosive areas.
Moisture Protection:
Plug or cap conduit ends at time of installation to prevent entrance of moisture and foreign materials.
Underground and embedded conduit connections shall be watertight.
Thruwall Seals and Conduit Sealing Bushings: Install for conduits passing through concrete slabs, floors, walls, or concrete block walls.	
Drainage: Conduit runs shall be fully drainable.  Where possible install conduit runs to drain to one end and away from building.  Avoid pockets or depressions in conduit runs.
Seal conduit openings within control and instrumentation panels and distribution equipment with duct sealing compound to provide watertight seal.
Use threaded hubs when entering top of enclosures.
Use sealing type locknuts when entering sides or bottom of enclosures.
Corrosion Protection:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: If conduit curbs are to be required for project, keep section 1 below, otherwise delete.
Conduit Curb:
For conduits routed in concrete slabs or floors and stub-ups through floor, provide 4-inch high concrete curb, extending two inches from outer surface of conduit penetrating floor, to prevent corrosion.  For floor-mounted equipment, concrete equipment base shall be in lieu of concrete curb.
Conduit stub-ups shall be 90-degree, PVC-coated, rigid, galvanized steel conduit elbow.  PVC-coated elbow shall extend a minimum of 1/2-inch above top of concrete curb or equipment base.  Should elbow not reach specified height, provide PVC-coated conduit extension to accommodate specified requirements.  Provide coupling or fitting for transition from rigid galvanized steel conduit or PVC conduit in slab to PVC-coated elbow.
For conduits stubbing up and terminating at equipment enclosure mounted on concrete base, provide insulated grounding bushing on PVC-coated rigid steel elbow.
For conduits stubbing up and extending to boxes, cabinets, and other enclosures above the concrete curb in wet and dusty areas, provide conduit coupling/fittings between the PVC-coated rigid steel elbow and rigid steel conduit for transition between the two conduit types.
For conduits stubbing up and extending to boxes, cabinets, and other enclosures above the concrete curb or equipment base in corrosive areas, continue conduit system with PVC-coated rigid steel conduit 
Dissimilar Metals:
Prevent occurrence of electrolytic action between dissimilar metals.
Do not use copper products in connection with aluminum, and do not use aluminum in locations subject to drainage of copper compounds on bare aluminum.
Protect Aluminum conduit where in contact with concrete.
Reused Existing Conduits:
Pull rag swab through conduits to remove water and to clean conduit prior to installing new cable.
Repeat swabbing until all foreign material is removed.
Pull mandrel through conduit, if necessary, to remove obstruc - tions.
Core drill for individual conduits passing through existing concrete slabs and walls.  Notify Engineer in writing in advance of core drilling.  Prior to core drilling, drill sufficient number of small exploratory holes to establish that the area to be core drilled is free of existing embedded conduits.  Seal spaces around conduit meeting moisture protection requirements of this section.
Non-metallic Conduit:
Install in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
Provide manufacturer's recommended adhesives or sealants for watertight connections.
Provide expansion fittings for expansion and contraction to compensate for temperature variations.  Fittings shall be watertight and suitable for direct burial.
Transition to PVC-coated rigid steel conduit before making turn up to enclosures.
PVC-coated Rigid Steel Conduit:
Install in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
Install with manufacturer's installation tools to avoid damage to PVC coating.
Repair damaged PVC coating with manufacturer's recommended touch-up compound.
Telephone and Signal System Raceways 2 in. Trade Size and Smaller: In addition to above requirements, install in maximum lengths of 150 ft (45 m) and with maximum of two 90° bends or equivalent. Install pull or junction boxes where necessary to comply with these requirements.
Conduit bends
Make bends and offsets so inside diameter is not reduced. Unless otherwise indicated, keep legs of bend in same plane and straight legs of offsets parallel.

Provide NEMA standard conduit bends, except for conduits containing medium voltage cable, fiber optic cable, or conductors requiring large radius bends.

Provide large radius conduit bends for conduits containing 5 kV and 15 kV cables as follows:

 Conduit Trade Size
 Bend Radius
 2 in. - 2-1/2 in.
 36 in.
 3 in. - 4 in.
 48 in.
 5 in.
 48 in.

Where physical limitations do not permit use of above, conduit bends with radius of at 8 times diameter of largest cable passing through conduit may be used.
Identify conduits, including spares, in accordance with Section 26 05 53, Identification for Electrical Systems.
Vertical Conductor Supports: Install simultaneously with installation of conductors.
Sleeves: Install in concrete slabs and walls and other fire-rated floors and walls for raceways and cable installations. For sleeves through fire rated-wall or floor construction, apply UL listed firestopping sealant in gaps between sleeves and enclosed conduits and cables.
Conduit Seals: Install seals for conduit penetrations of slabs below grade and exterior walls below grade and where indicated. Tighten sleeve seal screws until sealing grommets have expanded to form watertight seal.
Conduit extending through roof shall be sealed and integrated into the roofing system and made water tight.
FLEXIBLE CONDUIT INSTALLATION
Use maximum of 6 ft (1830 mm) of flexible conduit for recessed and semi-recessed lighting fixtures.
Install at motors, transformers, field instruments, and equipment subject to vibration or require movement for maintenance purposes.  Provide necessary reducer where equipment furnished cannot accept 3/4 inch diameter flexible conduit.  Limit flexible conduit length to three feet maximum.
Use liquidtight flexible conduit in wet or damp locations.
Use approved flexible connections in hazardous locations.
Install separate ground conductor inside flexible conduit connections.
PULL JUNCTION AND TERMINAL BOXES INSTALLATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS: Number the boxes on the drawings when required.  
Mount boxes so that sufficient access and working space is provided and maintain clearance of not less than 1/4-inch from walls.
Securely fasten boxes to walls or other structural surfaces on which boxes are mounted.  Provide independent supports that comply with Section 26 05 29, Hangers and Supports for Electrical Systems, where boxes will not be mounted on walls or other structural surface.
Install pull boxes where shown or indicated, and provide pull boxes where one or more of the following conditions exist:
Conduit runs containing more than three 90-degree bends.
Conduit runs exceeding 200 feet in length. 
Provide removable, flame-retardant, insulating cable supports in boxes with any dimension exceeding three feet.
Field-apply PVC touch-up to scratched PVC boxes damaged during installa - tion.  Touch-up work shall be in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations and instructions.
Size junction, pull, and terminal boxes in accordance with NEC Article 314 and other Laws and Regulations.
Provide terminal blocks in boxes where shown and where cable terminations or splices are required.
Do not locate boxes on handrails, unless directed by Engineer.
FITTINGS
Install raceway sealing fittings according to manufacturer's written instructions. Locate fittings at suitable, approved, accessible locations and fill them with UL-listed sealing compound. Install raceway sealing fittings at following points and elsewhere as indicated:
Where conduits enter or leave hazardous locations.
Where conduits pass from warm locations to cold locations, such as boundaries of refrigerated spaces and air-conditioned spaces.
Where otherwise required by NEC.
Use raceway fittings compatible with raceway and suitable for use and location. For GRS use threaded galvanized rigid steel conduit fittings, except as otherwise indicated.
Install automatic breather drain fittings according to manufacturer's written instructions. Locate fittings to drain conduit system and prevent condensate from entering device enclosures. Install automatic breather drain fittings at following points and elsewhere as indicated.
Where vertical seals are installed.
Low points in conduit system.
Below field instruments at junction of flexible and rigid conduit.
Where otherwise required by NEC.
Install wall entrance seal as dictated by application where conduits pass through foundation walls below grade.
Install conduit expansion fittings complete with bonding jumper in following locations.
Conduit runs crossing structural expansion joint.
Conduit runs attached to 2 separate structures.
Conduit runs where movement perpendicular to axis of conduit may be encountered.
Where conduit passes from inside of building to outdoors, it shall be firmly packed at fitting nearest wall line with Johns-Manville Duxseal to depth of at least 1 in. after wires and cables are pulled in; or, if conduit enters directly into equipment, it shall be fitted with seal and drain fitting to prevent water entering equipment.
GROUNDING
Ground in accordance with Section 26 05 26.
Provide grounding connections for raceway, boxes, and components as indicated and instructed by manufacturer. Tighten connectors and terminals, including screws and bolts, according to equipment manufacturer's published torque-tightening values for equipment connectors. Where manufacturer's torquing requirements are not indicated, tighten connectors and terminals according to tightening torques specified in UL 486A.
PROTECTION
Provide final protection and maintain conditions, in manner acceptable to manufacturer and Installer, to ensure that coatings, finishes, and cabinets are without damage or deterioration at Substantial Completion.
Repair damage to galvanized finishes with zinc-rich paint recommended by manufacturer.
Repair damage to PVC or paint finishes with matching touch-up coating recommended by manufacturer.
CLEANING
Upon completion of installation of system, including outlet fittings and devices, inspect exposed finish. Remove burrs, dirt, and construction debris and repair damaged finish, including chips, scratches, and abrasions.
FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
Site Tests:
Test conduits by pulling through each conduit a cylindrical mandrel with length not less than two pipe inside diameters, having an outside diameter equal to 90 percent of conduit's inside diameter.
Maintain a record, by number, of all conduits successfully tested.
Repair or replace conduits that do not successfully pass testing, and re-test.
                            + + END OF SECTION + +

 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Richmond ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CHAPTER 57:
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION
57.01
57.02
57.03
57.04
57.05
57.06
57.07
57.08
57.09
57.10
57.11
57.12
57.13
57.14
57.15
57.16
57.17
57.18
57.19

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Purpose
Authority
Applicability
Responsibility for Administration
Compatibility with Other Permit and Chapter Requirements
Severability
Definitions
Design Criteria, Standards, and Specifications for Erosion Control
Measures
Control of Erosion and Sediment during Land-Disturbing Activities
General Requirements for Individual Lots within a Permitted Project
Maintenance of Erosion Control Measures
Permit Application, Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, and Permit
Issuance
Inspection
Proper Credential or Identification Required
Enforcement
Project Termination
Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
Remedies Not Exclusive

GENERAL PROVISIONS
57.01 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Chapter is to conserve natural resources, to protect air and
water quality, and to protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the
people to the extent practicable by: minimizing the amount of sediment and other
pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land-disturbing activities from being
transported off-site to adjacent public or private lands including ditches, streams,
lakes, wetlands, reservoirs, storm sewers and MS4 conveyances.
57.02 AUTHORITY
This Chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Indiana Code 36-1-411,36-7-4, and all acts supplemental and amendatory thereto. This authority
provides for the administration, enforcement, and amendment of this Chapter for
controlling soil erosion in the City of Richmond.

57.03 APPLICABILITY
This Chapter applies to nonagricultural land-disturbing activities on land within
the corporate boundaries and jurisdiction of the City of Richmond, including
commercial, industrial, residential, and highway development.
57.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION
The City of Richmond shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this Chapter by and through the City Engineer’s office. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the City of Richmond may be delegated in writing by the
City to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the City.
57.05 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND CHAPTER
REQUIREMENTS
This Chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other
Chapter, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The requirements
of this Chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and where any
provision of this Chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by
any other Chapter, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human
health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
57.06 SEVERABILITY
The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this Chapter shall
not affect the validity of any other part of this Chapter which can be given effect
without the invalid part or parts. (Ord. 54-1981)
57.07 DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
(a) “AGRICULTURAL LAND USE” --The use of land for the production of
animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock, and
planting, growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock
consumption.
(b) “CITY” – The City of Richmond, or designated party.
(c) “EASEMENTS” -- An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by others. (Ord. 54-1981)

(d) “EROSION” -- The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or
rock fragments by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
(e) “EROSION CONTROL MEASURE” -- A practice or a combination of
practices to control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
(f) “EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN” -- A written description
of pertinent information concerning erosion control measures designed to
meet the requirements of this Chapter as submitted by the applicant for
the review and approval of the City of Richmond.
(g) “LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY” -- Any manmade change of the land
surface including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling,
transporting, and grading. In the context of this Chapter, it includes only
nonagricultural land-disturbing activities.
(h) “MS4” -- Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(i) “NONAGRICULTURAL LAND USE” -- The commercial use of land for
the manufacturing and wholesale or retail sale of goods and services,
residential or institutional use of land intended primarily to shelter people,
highway use of land including lanes, alleys, and streets, and other land
uses not included under agricultural land use.
(j) “NPDES PERMIT” -- National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
Permit. A permit issued by EPA (or by a State under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to water of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
(k) “PERSON” -- Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, trust, estate, political subdivision, state
agency, or any other legal entity or their legal representative, agent or
assigns legally capable of owning property in the State. (Ord. 54-1981)
(l) “RUNOFF” -- The portion of the precipitation from such sources as
rainfall, snowmelt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
(m)“SITE” -- The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land-disturbing activity has been proposed in the permit application.

57.08 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS, AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR
EROSION CONTROL MEASURES
All erosion control measures including, but not limited to, those required to
comply with this Chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the “City of Richmond- Stormwater Development Manual”, “Field
Office Technical Guide of the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Services”
and the “Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas.”
57.09 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES,
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED
PROJECT
Control of erosion and sediment is the responsibility of the applicant. Design
criteria, details, and specifications are located in the Stormwater Development
Manual.
The following erosion and other sediment control requirements shall be met on
all sites, with the exception of individual lots within a permitted project:
(a) SITE DEWATERING: Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall
be detained by temporary sediment basins. Also, water shall not be
discharged in a manner that causes erosion in the receiving channel.
(b) WASTE AND MATERIAL DISPOSAL: Wastes or unused building
materials including, but not limited to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes,
wastewater, toxic materials, and hazardous substances, shall not be
carried by runoff from a site. Proper disposal of all wastes and used
building materials, in line with the nature of the waste materials, is
required.
(c) TRACKING: Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private
roadways shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a wellplanned layout of roads, access drives, and parking areas of sufficient
width and length. However, protective covering also may be necessary.
(d) SEDIMENT REMOVAL: Public or private roadways shall be kept
cleared of accumulated sediment. If appreciable sedimentation occurs
after a storm event, the sediment shall be deposited on the parcels of
land, if in the site, from where it likely originated.

(e) DRAIN INLET PROTECTION: All storm drain inlets shall be protected
against sedimentation with straw bales, filter fabric, or equivalent barriers
meeting accepted design criteria, standards, and specifications.
(f) SITE EROSION CONTROL: The following items apply only to the time
period when land-disturbing activities are taking place:
(1) Runoff passing through a site from adjacent area shall be
controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas. Alternatively, the
existing channel may be improved to prevent erosion or
sedimentation from occurring.
(2) Runoff from a disturbed area shall be controlled by one or more
of the following measures:
(a) barring unforeseen weather conditions, all disturbed
ground left inactive for seven or more days shall be
stabilized prior to the tenth day by seeding, sodding,
mulching, covering or by other equivalent erosion control
measures.
(b) with disturbed areas within a site of 10 acres or more,
where drainage is in the same direction or where runoff will
result in loss of soil, an abatement or recovery program is
required. Where feasible, one or more sediment basins shall
be constructed. Each sediment basin shall have a depth of
a least three feet and have sufficient surface area to trap the
sediment. The size of sedimentation basin should be at
least one percent of its drainage area. Sediment shall be
removed from time to time to maintain a minimum three-foot
depth. When the disturbed area is stabilized, the sediment
basin can be removed. However, if erosion is likely to
continue, the sediment basin shall be maintained by the
existing or subsequent landowners. The discharge rate from
a sediment basin shall not cause scouring in the receiving
channel.
(c) with disturbed areas within a site of less than 10 acres,
filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent erosion control
measure placed along all sideslope and downslope sides of
the site shall be required. However, if these measures are
not sufficient to control off-site sedimentation, a sediment
basin may still be required.
(3) Erosion from all storage piles shall be controlled by placing
straw bales, filter fence or other appropriate barriers around the
piles. Adjacent storm drain inlets shall be protected using similar

filter barriers. Moreover, any soil storage pile containing more than
ten cubic yards of material may be located closer than 25 feet to a
roadway or a drainage channel but shall be covered with tarps or
suitable alternative if in existence for less than seven days.
However, if a pile is in existence for more than seven days, barriers
also shall be placed around the pile.
(4) IDEM Rule 5 requirements are addressed in Section 57.11.
57.10 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A
PERMITTED PROJECT
Provisions for erosion and sediment control on individual building lots regulated
under the original permit of a project site owner must include the following
requirements:
(a) The individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as
the agent of the property owner, shall be responsible for erosion and
sediment control requirements associated with activities on individual lots.
(b) Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site access.
(c) Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
(d) Sediment discharge and tracking from each lot must be minimized
throughout the land disturbing activities on the lot until permanent
stabilization has been achieved.
(e) Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads. Bulk
clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared
sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in
compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
(f) Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be repaired
and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
(g) For individual residential lots, final stabilization will be achieved when
the individual lot operator:
(1) completes final stabilization; or
(2) has installed appropriate erosion and sediment control
measures for an individual lot prior to occupation of the home by
the homeowner and has informed the homeowner of the
requirement for, and benefits of, final stabilization.

57.11 MAINTENANCE OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES
During the period of land disturbance at a site, all sediment basins and other
erosion control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this Chapter
shall be applied by the applicant or subsequent landowner. If sedimentation is
likely to be a problem after land-disturbing activities have ceased, some or all of
the erosion control measures shall be maintained by the applicant or subsequent
landowner for as long as the problem exists.
57.12 PERMIT APPLICATION, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN,
AND PERMIT ISSUANCE
No person shall begin a land-disturbing activity subject to this Chapter without
receiving approval of an erosion and sediment control plan. An application
should be made after the initial coordination meeting with the City. By submitting
an application, the applicant is implying that the City has been given permission
to enter the site to obtain information required for review of the erosion and
sediment control plan. This permit is in addition to a General Stormwater Permit
(Rule 5) required under 327 IAC 15-5.
Applicability: This section applies to the following sites with land-disturbing
activities: Those involving construction activities with a land disturbance greater
than or equal to one (1) acre, or disturbances of less than one (1) acre of land
that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one (1) or more acres of land.
(a) Content of erosion and sediment control plan for land-disturbing
activities covering one or more acres in a given site.
(1) At a minimum, the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall
include a project narrative, a vicinity map, construction plans and
calculations. A detailed listing of the comprehensive plan
requirements can be found in the Stormwater Development
Manual.
(b) Content of Erosion and Sediment Control Plan for a single family
residential development consisting of four (4) or fewer lots or a singlefamily residential strip development where the developer offers for sale or
lease without land improvements, and the project is not part of a larger
common plan of development or sale.
(1) At a minimum, the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall
include a project narrative, a vicinity map, construction plans and

calculations. A detailed listing of the plan requirements can be
found in the Stormwater Development Manual.
(c) Content of Erosion and Sediment Control Plan for individual lots within
a permitted project.
(1) At a minimum, the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall
include a project narrative, a vicinity map, construction plans and
calculations. A detailed listing of the minimal plan requirements
can be found in the Stormwater Development Manual.
(d) Review of the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
The City shall review the application and erosion and sediment control
plan in conjunction with the subdivision plat and local improvement permit
application to determine whether the requirements of this Chapter have
been met. If the conditions are not met, the City shall inform the applicant
in writing and either may require additional information or may disapprove
the plan. If requested, additional information shall be submitted. The City
shall again determine whether the plan meets the requirements of this
Chapter. If the plan is disapproved, the City shall inform the applicant in
writing, giving reasons for disapproval.
(e) Permits
(1) Surety Bond
As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the City shall
require the applicant to provide a surety bond or an irrevocable
letter of credit when the erosion and sediment control plan has
been approved to guarantee a good faith execution of the erosion
and sediment control plan and any permit conditions.
(2) Notification Requirements
(a) Notify the City at least 24 hours before commencing with
any land-disturbing activity;
(b) Notify the City of the completion of erosion control
measures within seven days after their installation;
(c) Obtain approval from the City prior to implementing any
changes to the most recently approved erosion and
sediment control plan;
(d) Install all erosion control measures as identified in the
approved erosion and sediment control plan;

(e) Maintain all road drainage systems, stormwater drainage
systems, erosion control measures, and other facilities
identified in the erosion and sediment control plan until the
project has been terminated (See Section 57.11 for
continuing maintenance responsibility).
(f) Where legal, remove sediment resulting from landdisturbing activities from adjacent surfaces and
drainageways and/or repair erosion damage to adjacent
surfaces and drainageways; and
(g) Allow the City to enter the site for verifying compliance
with the erosion and sediment control plan or for the
performing of any work necessary to bring the site into
compliance with the erosion and sediment control plan.
57.13 INSPECTION
To ensure compliance with the erosion and sediment control plan, the City shall
inspect sites having ongoing land-disturbing activities as deemed appropriate by
the City.
If land-disturbing activities are being carried out without a permit, the City shall
issue a stop work order pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-1-4-11 and IC 36-1-62.
57.14 PROPER CREDENTIAL OR IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED
The City shall present proper credentials or identification before entering upon
property of the person.
57.15 ENFORCEMENT
(a) The City shall post a stop work order if:
(1) Any non-complying land-disturbing activity regulated under this
Chapter is being undertaken.
(2) The erosion and sediment control plan is not being implemented
in good faith; or
(3) The conditions of the permit are not being met.
(b) Upon appeal to the City, a stop work order or the revocation may be
retracted.

(c) Ten days after posting a stop work order, the City may issue a notice of
intent to the violator stating that 14 days after issuing the notice of intent
the City will use the surety bond to perform the work necessary to provide
compliance with this Chapter.
(d) If, within five days after notification, a permit holder does not comply
with the erosion and sediment control plan or permit conditions, the City
shall revoke the permit.
(e) Administrative Fines
(1) When the City finds that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this Chapter, the City may impose an
administrative fine against such person in an amount not to exceed
$2,500.00 on a per violation, per day basis, plus any administrative
or remediation costs.
(2) Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the person.
(f) Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
57.16 PROJECT TERMINATION
An orderly and timely termination of a project with land-disturbing activities
should be planned between all persons involved with a site.
(a) Nearing the end of a project, but prior to final land grading, seeding,
and mulching, the person holding the permit should petition the City, in
writing, to allow the installation of utility lines on the site. Those persons
involved in the installation of utility lines shall perform their work promptly
to minimize the time period during which some of the land may be left in a
relatively unprotected state. After the utility lines have been installed, the
person holding the permit shall promptly complete all erosion control
activities.
(b) When a project has been completed, the person holding the permit
shall petition, in writing, the City for approval of erosion control measures
which are to remain on the site to evaluate the adequacy of these control
measures.
(1) If the erosion control measures are approved, any surety bonds
and/or letters of credit shall be released forthrightly. However,
maintenance responsibilities (See Section 57.11) shall remain with

the person owning the land.
(2) If the erosion control measures are not approved because they
are not in line with either the erosion and sediment control plan or
the General Principles of this Chapter, the City shall notify, in
writing, the person holding the permit of unacceptable features.
After a minimum period of two weeks during which corrective
measures are taken, a petition, again in writing, may be sent asking
the City to evaluate the adequacy of the erosion control measures.
If, in good faith, the City again decides that the erosion control
measures are inadequate, the City may delay the release of any
surety bonds and/or letters of credit for up to two months. After an
agreed upon time period of two months or longer has lapsed
without corrective measures being taken, the City may use the
surety bonds to finance changes or additions to the erosion control
measures needed to complete the project.
57.17 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is
a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a
nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense,
and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance may be taken.
57.18 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
(a) Injunctive Relief
When the City finds that a person has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this Chapter, an NPDES permit, or order issued hereunder, or
any other standard or requirement, the City may petition through any court
of general jurisdiction within Wayne County, for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction. The City may also seek such other
action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the person to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against a person.
(b) Civil Penalties
In addition to the administrative fines available herein, a person who has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this Chapter, or order
issued hereunder, or any other standard or requirement shall also be
liable to the City for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500.00 per violation, per
day. Penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.

(c) The City may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by
the District.
(d) In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the person’s violation,
corrective actions by the person, the compliance history of the person, and
any other factor as justice requires.
(e) Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite, for taking any other action against a person.
57.19 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
The remedies listed in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 1/5/15
SECTION 01 57 13
 Erosion and Sedimentation Control
NTS:  This section provides general procedures and requirements for erosion and sedimentation control during construction, including controls for stormwater runoff. The listed materials and techniques outline typical erosion control requirements for the majority of utility projects. When projects require additional erosion control methods beyond these listed herein, refer to the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual for additional details and requirements. The latest version can be obtained from IDEM's website (http://www.in.gov/idem/4899.htm). Add requirements and delete inapplicable paragraphs as necessary, and edit to suit the project.  
This section is also intended for projects with permanent erosion control measures, since in most cases the material and installation requirements for the temporary and permanent erosion controls are the same. Specific structures that are commonly used as both a permanent or temporary installations include rock check dams, coir logs, and erosion control blankets. If project includes both permanent and temporary ensure that any project specific requirements that may be different between a temporary and permanent erosion control are clearly defined. Coordinate with the drawings and measurement and payment.  
Control of stormwater runoff, sedimentation, and erosion may necessitate special requirements for each project.  Coordinate these with sections listed in Paragraph "1.1.B" of this section, and with site work specifications, as applicable.
For multiple-prime contract projects, edit this section to specify the contractor responsible for temporary erosion and sedimentation control.
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide and maintain methods, equipment, and temporary construction as required to control conditions at the Site and adjacent areas.  
Contractor shall maintain all controls until Contractor warranty period is complete, or until controls are no longer needed, whichever is earlier. Upon completion of the Work, remove temporary controls and restore Site to specified condition; if condition is not specified, restore Site to pre-construction condition.
NTS:  Remove paragraph "4" if project does not include permanent erosion control methods. 
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment and services required to provide all permanent erosion control measures as required.
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below only sections covering products, construction, and equipment  that a user may expect to find in this section, but are specified elsewhere.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections.  
Related Sections:
Section (--1--). 
QUALITY ASSURANCE
Comply with applicable provision and recommendations of the following:
Erosion Control methods and procedures shall comply with 327 IAC 15-5. Any inconsistencies with 327 IAC 15-5 will not apply except if inconsistency has been approved by IDEM or the IDNR Division of Soil Conservation.
Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual, formerly the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas. Copies are available from Indiana State Department of Agriculture, Division of Soil Conservation 101 W. Ohio Street, Suite 1200, Indianapolis, IN 46204, or downloaded at http://www.in.gov/idem/4899.htm.
Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications, current edition. 
SUBMITTALS
Erosion Control Plan:
Plan for construction staging and maintenance of the Site relative to erosion and sediment controls. Indicate on a Site plan approximate areas of planned disturbance of soils and soil cover over time during the Project. For areas not indicated in the Contract Documents as being disturbed and that Contractor proposes to disturb, Erosion Control Plan shall include proposed erosion and sediment control measures for the additional area.
NTS:  Delete Paragraph "2-4" when not required.  Location and details of temporary sedimentation basins, concrete washout areas, and construction entrances may be indicated on the Drawings.  
Location and details of temporary settlement basin(s).
Location and details of temporary concrete washout areas.
Location and details of temporary construction entrance(s).
Product Data, Manufacturer Installation and Maintenance Instructions:
Submit manufacturer product data, installation instructions and maintenance instructions for all erosion control products included in this specification.
Erosion Control Inspection Log
Contractor shall submit a copy of all erosion control inspection logs, completed in accordance with Section 3.2, with each monthly pay application.
Pay application will not be approved without the submittal of the erosion control inspection log. 
NTS:  Section "1.4" is to be included if project is bid on unit price basis. Section to be deleted or revised if project is to be bid on lump sum basis.
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
NTS:  Retain one version of Section "A" below and delete the other two.  Use the first version for unit price payments.  Use the second version for lump sum payments of individual items.   Use the third version for lump sum payment of all items together.

NTS:  Insert at (--1--) and (--2--) below the various temporary and permanent erosion controls to be used for project.  Add or delete work item numbers as needed.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control: (Unit Price) 
Work Item Title and Number
						01 57 13-A (--1--) Temporary Erosion and Sedimentation Control 
						01 57 13-B (--2--) Temporary Erosion and Sedimentation Control
Payment for Erosion and Sedimentation Control shall be on a unit price basis per type and unit, as indicated in the Bid Schedule. 
The payment quantity shall be based on the units actually installed, and removed upon completion, to complete the erosion control plan requirements	. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Use the following work items if project includes permanent erosion controls that are not going to be removed at the end of the project and that are to be paid for on a unit rate basis. Edit as required and add additional description as required based on the controls being installed. 
Permanent Erosion and Sedimentation Control: (Unit Price) 
Work Item Title and Number
						01 57 13-A (--1--) Permanent Erosion and Sedimentation Control 
						01 57 13-B (--2--) Permanent Erosion and Sedimentation Control
Payment for Erosion and Sedimentation Control shall be on a unit price basis per type and unit, as indicated in the Bid Schedule. 
The payment quantity shall be based on the units actually installed, as shown on the Drawings	. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Use the following paragraph "A" if erosion control is to be bid on a lump sum basis. If project includes temporary and permanent erosion controls coordinate the work descriptions below for any additional requirements for permanent erosion controls that are not going to be removed at the end of the project.  
  A. Erosion Control: (Lump Sum)
    1. Work Item Title and Number
				01 57 13-A   Erosion and Sedimentation Control 
Payment for Erosion and Sedimentation Control shall be a lump sum price.
The lump sum price shall constitute full compensation for providing all labor, materials, and equipment, both temporary and permanent, and all other cost associated with the installation and maintenance of all control devices, with the removal of sediment deposits and temporary erosion control devices as required, cleaning of paved surfaces and all other cost associated with erosion and sediment protection.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Use the following paragraph "A" if erosion controls are not going to have separate work items.  
  A. This item is to be included in overall Project cost and not bid as a separate Work item.
STORMWATER RUNOFF
Stormwater Control  -  General: 
Provide methods to control stormwater runoff (surface drainage) and water from excavations and structures to prevent damage to the Work, the Site, and adjoining properties.
Control fill, grading, and ditching to direct water away from excavations, pits, tunnels and other construction areas and to direct drainage to proper runoff courses to prevent erosion, damage, or nuisance.
Equipment and Facilities for Stormwater Control: Provide, operate, and maintain equipment and facilities of adequate size to control storm water runoff.
The Contractor shall at all times during construction provide and maintain ample means and devices with which to remove promptly and dispose of properly all stormwater runoff entering the excavations or other parts of the Work and shall keep said excavations dry until the structures to be built or pipelines to be placed therein are completed. No stormwater shall be allowed to rise over or come in contact with masonry until the concrete and mortar have attained a satisfactory set, except in cases where the concrete has been tremied into place with the approval of the Engineer. In water bearing sand, well points and/or sheeting shall be supplied, together with pumps and other appurtenances of ample capacity to keep the excavation free of stormwater. 
Discharge and Disposal: Dispose of stormwater in manner to prevent flooding, erosion, and other damage to any and all parts of the Site and adjoining areas, and that conforms to Laws and Regulations.
Water used for working or processing, resulting from dewatering operations, or containing oils or sediments that will reduce the quality of the water downstream of the point of discharge, shall not be directly discharged.  Such waters shall be diverted through a settling basin, filter or other approved method, before being discharged.
Contractor will be held responsible for the condition of any pipe, conduit or channel used for drainage purposes and all such pipes, conduits or channels shall be left clean and free of sediment.
EROSION CONTROL
Erosion Control  -  General: 
Plan and execute construction and earthwork by methods to control surface drainage from cuts and fills, and from borrow and waste disposal areas, to prevent erosion and sedimentation.  
Hold to a minimum the areas of bare soil exposed at one time.
Provide temporary control measures such as berms, dikes, and drains.
Construct fills and waste areas by selective placement to reduce surface silts or clays that will erode.
Periodically inspect earthwork to detect evidence of the start of erosion; apply corrective measures as required to control erosion.  Continue inspections and corrective measures until permanent vegetation has been established.
The Contractor shall maintain drainage flow at all times through any ditches disturbed during construction. The Contractor shall minimize disturbance and sedimentation due to excavation in ditches and shall restore the ditches to their original condition and performance.  
Periodically inspect impacted ditches and streams to detect evidence of the start of erosion; apply corrective measures as required to control erosion.  Continue inspections and corrective measures until permanent erosion control and vegetation have been established.
NTS:  Note that B.1 references permit and/or erosion requirements in construction documents.  Edit as needed to match where permit requirements are listed.  Include copy of City obtained permit.
Erosion Control Permit (SWPPP):
Contractor shall comply with the 327 IAC 15-5 "Stormwater Run-Off 	Associated with Construction Activity" permit, as provided by the Owner and as shown or specified in the construction documents.
Contractor shall follow the Indiana Storm Water Quality Manual.
Contractor shall submit proof of approved erosion control plans for excavated materials disposal site.
Contractor shall install and maintain erosion control around stockpiles of granular material using gravel filled bags.
Contractor shall install and maintain erosion control around existing and newly constructed inlets downstream from construction activity.
Contractor shall furnish, install, and maintain erosion control measures such as silt fences and temporary seeding and sodding on all disturbed areas.
Contractor to minimize granular deposits on the street surfaces and sidewalks, open to traffic. Excess material shall be removed at end of workday by approved methods. (i.e. street sweeper, brooming).  Contractor shall not remove material by flushing street with water.
Contractor shall post a copy of the Notice of Intent letter on project 	board at the Site or other approved highly visible location on Site.
Contractor shall provide a trained individual to oversee the installation and maintenance of erosion and sedimentation control.
Contractor to inspect, repair, and maintain erosion and sedimentation control a minimum of once each week or by the end of the next business day after a storm event greater than 0.5" of rainfall in 24 hours. A trained individual shall prepare a written evaluation of each inspection, repair, and maintenance performed. The evaluation must include: the name of the individual performing the evaluation; the date of the evaluation; problems identified at the project site; and details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
Corrective actions required, as a result of an inspection or control measure 	failure shall be scheduled within 24 hours of inspection or failure.
Contractor shall make the Construction Drawings and inspection reports available upon request. 
Contractor to record any revisions to the Storm Water Pollution 	Prevention Plan.
Areas to be left inactive for 15 days or more to be treated with temporary or 	permanent seeding or sodding.
If provisions of these specifications conflict with provisions of the Standard Specifications the provisions of this specification will govern.
NTS:  Delete Article "1.7" below if project doesn't not contain permanent erosion control measures. This article is intended for projects where maintenance of the permeant erosion control feature is needed. Edit as required for project.  
WARRANTY
General Warranty: The special warranties specified in this Section shall not deprive Owner of other rights or remedies that Owner may otherwise have under the Contract Documents and shall be in addition to, and run concurrent with, other warranties required by Contractor under the Contract Documents.
NTS:  Edit Paragraph "B" below based on permeant erosion control measure that requires extended maintenance. 
Special Warranties: The Contractor shall guarantee a good stand vegetation that is part of permanent erosion controls, by watering, regrading and reseeding eroded areas and otherwise maintaining all permanent erosion controls until final acceptance. Any areas which do not show uniform growth or has bare spots shall be replanted and repaired at the Contractor's expense with the plantings and materials as originally used thereon and such replanting and repairs shall be repeated until all affected areas are repaired. Final acceptance of all permanent erosion control measures may be required by the Contractor after 60 days from the date of installation. The above does not release the Contractor from the standard provisions included in the Guaranty or Maintenance Bond agreement. 
MAINTENANCE
Contractor shall maintain erosion controls during Contractor warranty period. Including inspections after rain events, and restoration to original design condition as required.  
PRODUCTS 
NTS:  This section provides general materials for site control during construction, including controls for stormwater runoff, sedimentation, and erosion.  Edit requirements to include additional products or remove information not applicable to the project as necessary. Both temporary and permanent erosion control measures are listed, coordinate with the Drawings as required to make clear the permanent erosion control methods required for the project.  
GENERAL-EROSION AND CONTROL
All erosion control products shall be in accordance with the Indiana Department of Transportation Standards Specifications (INDOTSS).  
All materials provided under this Specification shall meet the requirements of the applicable sections of the Indiana Department of Transportation Standards Specifications (INDOTSS), latest edition or Indiana Storm Water Quality Handbook.
NTS:  Provide available details for control measures listed below on Drawings.  If details are not to be provided, add additional specifications below to include required minimum thicknesses and layout dimensions.  Designer must include specific design specification, notes, and details for any unique features or site conditions to be included in the project. 

SITE PREPARATION
NTS:  If required to maintain site drainage or flows in existing side ditches, specifier shall include details and specifications for the installation of a culvert under the construction entrance.  Minimum allowable culvert size is 15". 
Temporary Construction Entrance
Construction of temporary construction entrances shall conform to the 	details provided in the Contract Documents.
Manufactures:  The following geosynthetic material will be accepted:
Mirafi HP270 
Or equal 	
A woven geotextile fabric shall be installed for separation of subbase and base aggregate materials.  Geotextile fabrics for use in construction entrances shall conform to the following table:
                     Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements 
                      Construction Entrance Installation
                              Physical Properties
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                 Minimum Value
                                        
                                       
                                       
                                      MD
                                      CD
                        Tensile Strength (at ultimate)
                                  ASTM D4595
                                    lbs/ft
                                     2640
                                     2460
                        Tensile Strength (at 2% strain)
                                       
                                       
                                      480
                                      588
                        Tensile Strength (at 5% strain)
                                       
                                       
                                     1212
                                     1356
                       Tensile Strength (at 10% strain)
                                       
                                       
                                     2340
                                     2412
                               Factory Sewn Seam
                                  ASTM D4884
                                    lbs/ft
                                     1250
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D4491
                                  gal/min/ft2
                                      50
                                 Permeability
                                       
                                    cm/sec
                                     0.04
                                 Permittivity
                                       
                                     sec-1
                                     0.70
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      30
                           UV Resistance (at 500hrs)
                                  ASTM D4355
                              % strength retained
                                      80
Base aggregate material shall consist of INDOT #2 aggregate and capped with INDOT #5 aggregate.  Thickness of each aggregate layer shall 	conform to the dimensions indicated on the Drawings.
Prior to installation, all vegetation shall be removed from foundation area.
Foundation area shall be graded for positive drainage.
Where possible, divert all stormwater runoff and drainage from the temporary construction entrance to a sediment trap or basin.
NTS:  Edit Number 3 below to require the use of either standard strength or extra strength synthetic filter fabrics as sediment barriers. 
Temporary Perimeter Protection - Silt Fence 
Construction of sediment barriers shall conform to the details provided in the Contract Documents.
Sediment barriers shall be designed and used in situations in which only sheet or overland flows are expected.
Geotextile fabrics for use in sediment barriers shall conform to the following table:
       
                     Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
                         Sediment Barrier Installation
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                    95-125
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      15
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      60
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #30
                                 Permittivity
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                    sec[-1]
                                      0.1
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      10
       
Sediment barriers shall be removed when they have served their useful purpose, but not before the upslope area has been permanently stabilized.
Sediment barriers shall be inspected immediately after each rainfall and at least daily during prolonged rainfall.  Any required repairs shall be made immediately.
Should the sediment barrier decompose or become ineffective prior to the upslope area being permanently stabilized, the barrier shall be replaced promptly.
Sediment deposits should be removed after each storm event.  They must be removed when deposits reach approximately one-half the height of the barrier.
Any sediment deposits remaining, in place, after the barrier has been removed shall be dressed to conform to the existing grade, prepared, and seeded.	
Temporary Perimeter Protection - Filter Sock 
Manufactures:  The following proprietary sediment control devices will be accepted for use as perimeter protection:
Filtrexx Sediment Control 
Or equal 	
Construction of sediment barriers shall conform to the details provided in the contract documents.
Sediment barriers shall be used and installed as recommended by the manufacturer.
Filtrexx Sediment Control Soxx for use in sediment barriers shall conform to the following table:
NTS:  Edit table below based on project requirements. Designer shall specify required diameter and material type, based on manufacturers design tool. Remove unused material types.
       
                          Filtrexx Sediment Control 
                            Filtrexx Soxx Material
                                Material Type 
                                   3mil HDPE
                                   5mil HDPE
                                   5mil HDPE
                      Multi-Filament Polypropylene (MFPP)
                   Multi-Filament Polypropylene Safety Soxx
                           Material Characteristics
                                Photodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                                 Biodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                            Design Diameters (inch)
                                       5
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                       5
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                              Mesh Opening (inch)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (1/8)
                            Tensile Strength (psi)
                                      ND
                                      26
                                      26
                                      44
                                      202
          % Original Strength form Ultraviolet Exposure (ASTM G-155)
                                23% at 1,000 hr
                                23% at 1,000 hr
                                      ND
                               100% at 1,000 hr
                               100% at 1,000 hr
                     Functional Longevity/Project Duration
                                  6 mo - 2 yr
                                  9 mo - 3 yr
                                6  - 12 months
                                  1  - 4 year
                                  2  - 5 year
Filtrexx Sediment Control Soxx shall contain a coarse composted material that is a Certified Filtrexx Filter Media.	
Sediment barriers shall be inspected immediately after each rainfall and at least daily during prolonged rainfall.  Any required repairs shall be made immediately.
Sediment deposits should be removed after each storm event.  They must be removed when deposits reach approximately one-half the height of the barrier.
Any sediment deposits remaining, in place, after the barrier has been removed shall be dressed to conform to the existing grade, prepared, and seeded.	
NTS:  Edit Number 9 if different disposal method is required for project.
Filtrexx Sediment Control, including Filtrexx Filter Media, shall be properly disposed of offsite.
NTS:  Designer shall select location and design requirements of concrete washout area based on site and construction conditions.  Designer shall review City of Fort Wayne Standard Details and Specifications below for conformance with selected design. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  If a prefabricated concrete washout system is to be allowed, edit specifications below as required.
CONCRETE WASHOUT AREA
General
A concrete washout location shall be designated and a system shall be implemented to reduce the discharge of pollutants associated with concrete washout waste.
Construction/Installation of a concrete washout system shall be complete prior to concrete delivery.
Do not wash out concrete trucks or equipment into storm drains, wetlands, streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, or streets.
Signage shall be installed to designate location of concrete washout system.
Concrete washout system shall conform to the details on the Drawings.
Washout system shall utilize a pit or bermed area designed and maintained at a capacity to contain all liquid and concrete waste generated by washout operations, between scheduled cleanout periods.
Pit shall be lined with ten millimeter polyethylene lining to control seepage.
Place flags, safety fencing, or equivalent to provide a barrier to construction 	equipment and other traffic.	
Inspect the overall washout system daily for leaks, spills, tracking of soil by 	equipment, lining failure, and hardened concrete.
Once concrete wastes have hardened, remove and dispose off-site.
Excess concrete shall be removed when the washout system reaches 50 	percent of the design capacity.
Replace the plastic liner after each cleaning of the concrete washout system.
Concrete washout systems shall be cleaned, removed, filled, graded, and stabilized at the completion of concrete operations.
NTS:  Article 2.4 below is intended for use on areas with a 2/1 slope or less.  Short-term blankets are intended for installations of less than 6 months and long-term blankets are intended for installations of 6  -  12 months.   Engineer shall designate type of erosion control blanket required for each installation. Provide additional requirements for slopes steeper than 2/1 and for installations longer than 12 months.  Engineer shall include City standard details for short-term and long-term installations and include details for other installations as required.
NTS:  Erosion control blankets may be utilized as a temporary or permanent erosion control method. Article "2.4" below does not differentiate between a permanent or temporary installation. If the project requires differences between  permanent and temporary installations, edit Article "2.4" below.  
NTS: If project includes both temporary and erosion control blankets, coordinate with drawings and make clear which structures are to remain after construction
EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS
Short-term (less than 6 month functional longevity) Erosion Control Blankets.
The blanket shall be 100% straw fiber matrix.
Stitching shall be photodegradable thread.
The blanket shall be double-net construction.
Contractor shall prepare soil according to the grading, seeding, fertilization and restoration requirements of the contract documents, prior installing erosion control blankets. 
Installation of erosion control blankets shall conform to the details provided in the Contract Documents.
Anchoring shall be by means of 6" to 12" staples or pins and installed per manufacturers recommendations for specific application.
The blanket shall conform to the minimum requirements listed in the following table:
       
                     Erosion Control Blanket Requirements
       Short-Term Installation (Less than 6 Months Functional Longevity)
                               Physical Property
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                                Top Net Weight
                                lbs/1,000 ft[2]
                                      1.5
                              Straw Fiber Density
                                   lbs/yd[2]
                                      0.5
                               Bottom Net Weight
                                lbs/1,000 ft[2]
                                      1.5
                                   Anchoring
                                 Anchors/yd[2]
                                      1.5

Long-term (more than 12 month functional longevity) Erosion Control Blankets.
The blanket shall be constructed of straw fiber and coconut fiber combination, with a minimum coconut content of 30%.
Stitching shall be photodegradable thread.
The blanket shall be double-net construction.
Contractor shall prepare soil according to the grading, seeding, fertilization and restoration requirements of the contract documents, prior installing erosion control blankets. 
Installation of erosion control blankets shall conform to the details provided in the Contract Documents.
Anchoring shall be by means of 8" to 12" staples or pins and installed per manufacturers recommendations for specific application.
The blanket shall conform to the minimum requirements listed in the following table:
       
                     Erosion Control Blanket Requirements
          Long-Term Installation (6 - 12 Months Functional Longevity)
                               Physical Property
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                                Top Net Weight
                                lbs/1,000 ft[2]
                                       3
                              Straw Fiber Density
                                   lbs/yd[2]
                                     0.35
                             Coconut Fiber Density
                                   lbs/yd[2]
                                     0.15
                               Bottom Net Weight
                                lbs/1,000 ft[2]
                                      1.5
                                   Anchoring
                                  Anchors/yd2
                                       2
NTS:  Rock check dams may be utilized as a temporary or permanent erosion control method. Article "2.5" below does not differentiate between a permanent or temporary installation. If the project requires differences between  permanent and temporary installations, edit Article "2.5" below.  
ROCK CHECK DAMS
NTS: If project includes both temporary and permanent rock check dams, coordinate locations on drawings and make clear which structures are to remain after construction.  
Provide rock check dams as indicated on Drawings. 
Materials 
A nonwoven geotextile fabric, conforming to the requirements of the following table, shall be used for separation of subbase and base aggregate materials.
       
                   Non-Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
                          Rock Check Dam Installation
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                      200
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      50
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      500
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #80
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      95
       
The aggregate shall be as defined by INDOT Standards for revetment riprap, must be crushed stone and must meet the following gradations.
       
                       INDOT Revetment Riprap Gradation
                                Size, In. (mm)
                                   Revetment
                                   30 (750)
                                       
                                   24 (600)
                                       
                                   18 (450)
                                      100
                                   12 (300)
                                    90-100
                                    8 (200)
                                       
                                    6 (150)
                                     20-40
                                    3 (75)
                                     0-10
                                    1 (25)
                                       
                                       
                           Depth of Riprap, minimum
                                18 in. (450 mm)
NTS:  No. 3 below requires INDOT #5 aggregate.  If INDOT #5 is not available, INDOT #8 aggregate may be used.  Review availability and edit as required.
The filter medium shall be well-graded INDOT #5 aggregate.
Installation
Excavate a cutoff trench into the channel bottom and ditch banks, extending it a minimum of 18 inches beyond the top of the ditch bank.
Install and anchor filter fabric in the channel and cutoff trench.
Place riprap in the cutoff trench and channel to the lines and dimensions shown on the Drawings.  The center of each dam must be at least nine inches lower than the uppermost points of contact between the riprap dam and channel banks.
Extend the riprap at least 18 inches beyond the top of the channel banks to keep overflow water from eroding areas adjacent to the channel banks before it re-enters the channel.
Place filter medium (INDOT #5 aggregate) on the up-slope side of the dam.  Place filter medium over the entire face of the dam up to the base of 	the overflow weir notch.
Stabilize the channel above the uppermost dam.
Maintenance
Contractor shall immediately notify Engineer if significant erosion occurs between dams.
Remove accumulated sediment when it reaches one-half the height of the dam to maintain channel capacity, allow drainage through the dam, and prevent large flow from displacing sediment.
Add riprap and aggregate as needed to maintain design height and cross section of the dams.
NTS:  If project includes permanent rock check dams, edit or remove paragraph "4" below. 
If project is to remove check dams at the end of project, include additional provisions as required for channel stabilization and rock check dam removal, prior to project completion.  Add applicable requirements and limits of use for erosion control blankets, seeding, and rip rap.
When dams are no longer needed, remove the riprap and aggregate and stabilize the channel banks.	
NTS:  Article 2.6 below provides requirements for inlet protection.  Other methods of inlet protection are available.  Edit Article 2.6 as required for project/site conditions.
TEMPORARY INLET PROTECTION
Temporary Inlet Protection  -  Geotextile Fabric
Application
Geotextile fabric inlet protection shall be installed at existing 	and new-construction storm sewer drop inlets, where area immediately surrounding inlet is not paved.
Geotextile fabric inlet protection is not permitted for use where area immediately surrounding inlet is paved.
Structure
Inlet protection shall be constructed and installed in conformance with the details provided in the contract documents.
Structure shall be constructed to a height 12" to 18" above the top of the storm drain inlet; maximum post spacing is 36".
Geotextile fabric shall be woven and shall conform to the requirements listed in the following table:
         
                     Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
                    Temporary Inlet Protection Installation
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                      124
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      15
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      60
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #30
                                 Permittivity
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                    sec[-1]
                                      0.1
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      10
         
Structure shall be constructed and braced as required to withstand 1 (1/2) foot head of water and sediment without collapsing or undercutting.
Pre-manufactured and site constructed structures, meeting the requirements of this specification and details provided in the Drawings, are permitted.
Installation
Inlet protection installation shall conform to the requirements of the details provided in the contract documents.
Maintenance
Inspect all inlet protection controls daily and make required repairs immediately.
Remove sediment when it has accumulated to four inches anywhere along the inlet protection.
All sediment shall be removed and disposed of off-site.	
When contributing drainage area has been stabilized, remove inlet protection, remove sediment, grade area to the required elevation and stabilize immediately.
If area around inlet is to be paved, prior to stabilization of all contributing drainage area, remove and replace inlet protection with an inlet protection approved for paved areas. 
Temporary Inlet Protection  -  Sediment Control Sack 
Application
Temporary sediment control sacks shall only be installed at all existing and new-construction storm sewer inlets and catch basins, where area immediately surrounding inlet is paved.
Temporary sediment control sacks are not permitted for use where area immediately surrounding inlet is not paved.
General
Temporary sediment control sacks shall be proprietary devices and shall be submitted for approval prior to installation.
Proprietary inlet protection devices shall provide a filtering efficiency that removes at least 80% of the Total Suspended Solids. 
Proprietary devices shall not slow the runoff into the structure such that ponding occurs on the travel lanes of street.
Temporary sediment control sacks shall include framework or basket.
Inlet protection shall be designed and installed with a bypass to allow stormwater to flow into the storm system during excessive storm events.
Inlet protection shall be designed and installed with dumping straps to allow for ease of maintenance.
Material
Frame or basket shall have a top width and length such that it will fit into the inlet and be supported by the inlet, grate, or storm sewer.
Temporary sediment control sacks shall only be used for the specific type of inlet they were designed and recommended by the manufacturer.
Installation
Inlet protection installation shall conform to the manufacturer requirements for each specific type of inlet or catch basin.
Maintenance
Inspect all inlet protection controls daily and make required repairs immediately.
Remove accumulated sediment and debris after each storm event.
Remove sediment when it has accumulated to four inches in the sediment control sack.
All sediment shall be removed and disposed of off-site.
Inlet protection devices shall be removed when contributing drainage area has been stabilized.
NTS: Stone Bag Inlet Protection is intended for use with a drainage area of 1 acre or less per inlet.  Additional design considerations are required for larger drainage areas.
Temporary Inlet Protection  -  Stone Bags 
Application
The use of stone bag inlet protection is permitted at existing and new-construction storm sewer drop inlets and curb inlets, in both paved and un-paved areas.	
Structure
Stone bag inlet protection shall be constructed and installed in conformance with the details provided in the contract documents.
Structure shall be constructed to a height of one to three layers of bags (as necessary).
Structure shall be constructed to surround storm drain inlets in sump (depression) areas or to a minimum of three feet long at the up-slope side of storm drain inlets and curb inlets (as necessary).
Materials
Bags shall be constructed of non-woven geotextile fabric.
Traffic Barricades  -  As needed, to prevent vehicles from hitting the barrier.
INDOT #5 washed aggregate.  Aggregate must be larger than storm sewer grate openings.
Installation
Inlet protection installation shall conform to the requirements of the details provided in the contract documents.
Where bags meet existing curbs, overlap bags onto curb, at least half a bag in length.
Additional layers of bags shall be overlapping with the layer below, with staggered joints.	
Construct a spillway as shown on the Drawings.
Maintenance
Inspect all inlet protection controls daily and make required repairs immediately.
Remove sediment when it has accumulated to four inches anywhere along the inlet protection.
All sediment shall be removed and disposed of off-site.
When contributing drainage area has been stabilized, remove inlet protection, remove sediment, grade unpaved areas to the required elevation 	and stabilize immediately.
NTS:  Filtrexx Inlet Protection is intended for use with a drainage area of 1 acre or less per inlet.  Additional design considerations are required for larger drainage areas.
Temporary Inlet Protection  -  Filter Sock 
Inlet Protection- Filtrexx Inlet Protection 
Manufactures:  The following proprietary sediment control devices will be accepted for use as inlet protection:
Filtrexx Inlet Protection 
Or equal 	
Inlet protection shall be used and installed as recommended by the manufacture.
Filtrexx Soxx for use in inlet protection shall conform to the following table:
NTS:  Edit table below based on project requirements. Designer shall specify required diameter based on manufactures design tool. Remove unused material types. 
         
                          Filtrexx Inlet Protection 
                            Filtrexx Soxx Material
                                Material Type 
                                   3mil HDPE
                                   5mil HDPE
                                   5mil HDPE
                      Multi-Filament Polypropylene (MFPP)
                   Multi-Filament Polypropylene Safety Soxx
                           Material Characteristics
                                Photodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                                 Biodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                                Photodegradable
                            Design Diameters (inch)
                                       5
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                       5
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                                       8
                                      12
                                      18
                                      24
                                      32
                              Mesh Opening (inch)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (3/8)
                                      (1/8)
                            Tensile Strength (psi)
                                      ND
                                      26
                                      26
                                      44
                                      202
          % Original Strength form Ultraviolet Exposure (ASTM G-155)
                                23% at 1,000 hr
                                23% at 1,000 hr
                                      ND
                               100% at 1,000 hr
                               100% at 1,000 hr
                     Functional Longevity/Project Duration
                                  6 mo - 2 yr
                                  9 mo - 3 yr
                                6  - 12 months
                                  1  - 4 year
                                  2  - 5 year
         
Filtrexx Inlet Control Soxx shall contain a coarse composted material that is a Certified Filtrexx Filter Media.	 
Sediment barriers shall be inspected immediately after each rainfall and at least daily during prolonged rainfall.  Any required repairs shall be made immediately.
Sediment deposits should be removed after each storm event.  They must be removed when deposits reach approximately one-half the height of the barrier.
Any sediment deposits remaining, in place, after the barrier has been removed shall be removed offsite.
Filtrexx Inlet Control including Filtrexx Filter Media, shall be properly disposed of offsite.
NTS:  Temporary sediment traps are intended for use with a drainage area of 5 acres or less.  Additional design considerations are required for larger drainage areas.
TEMPORARY SEDIMENT TRAP
General
Temporary sediment traps shall be installed at outlets of pipes, culverts, conduits, and channels, as indicated on the Drawings.
Dimensions and layouts of sediment traps shall be determined by flow capacity and  velocity of storm discharge and shall be as indicated on the Drawings.		
Sedimentation basins shall be formed by construction of a compacted  embankment and/or excavated basin.
A nonwoven geotextile fabric shall be installed for separation of embankment and aggregate materials.
Material
Geotextile fabric shall be non-woven and shall conform to the requirements listed in the following table:
       
                   Non-Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
                     Temporary Sediment Trap Installation
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                      200
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      50
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      500
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #80
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      95
       
The riprap shall be as defined by INDOT Standards for revetment riprap and meet the following gradations.
       	
                       INDOT Revetment Riprap Gradation
                                Size, In. (mm)
                                   Revetment
                                   30 (750)
                                       
                                   24 (600)
                                       
                                   18 (450)
                                      100
                                   12 (300)
                                    90-100
                                    8 (200)
                                       
                                    6 (150)
                                     20-40
                                    3 (75)
                                     0-10
                                    1 (25)
                                       
                                       
                           Depth of Riprap, minimum
                                18 in. (450 mm)

NTS:  No. 3 below requires INDOT #5 aggregate.  If INDOT #5 is not available, INDOT #8 aggregate may be used.  Review availability and edit as required.
     
The filter medium shall be well-graded INDOT #5 aggregate.
Installation
Clear, grub, and strip all vegetation and root material from the embankment area.
Construct the embankment in six to eight inch lifts, compacting each lift as it is placed.   At the time of placement, soil material must be wet enough to form a ball without crumbling and not so wet that water can be squeezed out 	of it.
Construct embankment six inches above design elevation to allow for settling.
    1. Excavate a trapezoidal outlet section in the compacted embankment. Excavate the outlet section to the base of the pool area.
Place geotextile fabric in the outlet section, extending the fabric up the sides 	to the top of the embankment.
Install rip rap per the line and grade, as indicated on the Drawings.
Immediately repair any geotextile fabric that tears during riprap installation.  Repair by laying and stapling a piece of fabric over the damaged area and overlapping the edges by a minimum of 12".
Cover the upstream face of the riprap outlet section with a 12-inch thick layer of INDOT #5 aggregate.
Construct a small plunge pool within the outlet apron to collect sediment.
Stabilize the embankment with seed, mulch, or other approved erosion 	resistant cover.
Maintenance
Inspect for stone displacement and replace stones as required.
Inspect for erosion or scouring around the sides of embankment and pool area; repair as needed. 
Remove sediment when it has accumulated to one-half the design volume.
All sediment shall be removed and disposed of off-site.
Replace spillway aggregate facing if the sediment pool does not drain within 48 to 72 hours following a stormwater runoff event.
Temporary sedimentation basins shall be removed when contributing drainage area has been stabilized.
TEMPORARY SEDIMENT CONTROL DEWATERING BAG
General
A temporary sediment control dewatering bag shall be installed at the discharge point of all dewatering pipes and hoses. 
Dewatering bags shall be proprietary devices and shall be submitted for approval prior to installation.
Proprietary dewatering bags shall provide a filtering efficiency that removes at least 80% of the Total Suspended Solids. 
Material
Dewatering bags shall be made of non-woven geotextile fabric and shall be constructed specifically for the purpose of sediment control from dewatering pipes and hoses. 
Geotextile fabrics shall conform to the following table:
       
                   Non-Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
                                Dewatering Bag 
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                      205
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      50
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      130
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #80
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      95
                          UV Resistance (at 500 hrs) 
                                  ASTM D4355
                              % strength retained
                                      70
Installation
Dewatering bag installation shall conform to the manufacturer recommendations.
Dewatering bags should only be used on pipe or hoses sizes that they were specifically designed for.
Dewatering bags shall be placed on an aggregate underlayment for stabilization.
A nonwoven geotextile fabric shall be installed for separation of sub-base and aggregate underlayment.  Geotextile fabrics shall conform to the following table:
       
                   Non-Woven Geotextile Fabric Requirements
              Dewatering Bag Aggregate Underlayment Installation
                               Physical Property
                                  Test Method
                                     Unit
                                  Min. Value
                             Grab Tensile Strength
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                     lbs.
                                      200
                            Grab Tensile Elongation
                                  ASTM D 4632
                                       %
                                      50
                               Puncture Strength
                                  ASTM D 4833
                                     lbs.
                                      500
                          Apparent Opening Size (AOS)
                                  ASTM D 4751
                                  U.S. Sieve
                                      #80
                                   Flow Rate
                                  ASTM D 4491
                                 gal/min/ft[2]
                                      95
Maintenance
Remove accumulated sediment when the bag is half full of sediment or as required to maintain the capacity of the dewatering system.
All sediment shall be removed and disposed of off-site.
Dewatering bags shall be removed from the Site at the completion of dewatering and shall not be buried or left on Site.
NTS:  River or lake shore protection may be utilized as a temporary or permanent erosion control method. Article "2.9" below does not differentiate between a permanent or temporary installation. If the project requires differences between  permanent and temporary installations, edit Article "2.9" below.  
NTS: If project includes both temporary and permanent river or lake shore protection, coordinate with drawings and make clear which structures are to remain after construction.  
       
RIVER/LAKE SHORE PROTECTION
NTS: Coir logs can be specified with or without erosion control blankets. Engineer shall designate installation requirements.  If an erosion control blanket is required, use requirements of long-term erosion control blankets, listed in Section 2.4.

NTS:  Coir logs can be specified as vegetated or non-vegetated installations. Engineer shall designate installation requirements.  If a vegetated installation is required, engineer shall specify planting requirements.
NTS:  Required spacing is dependent on site conditions and river/lake shore bank slope.  Engineer shall designate installation spacing and other requirements as necessary.
River/Lake Shore Protection  -  Coir Logs 
Coir logs shall have a minimum diameter of 6 inches. 
Coir logs shall be 100% decorticated coconut fibers with minimum density of 3.5 lb/cubic foot. 
The netting shall be biodegradable with a life expectance of at least six 	months.
NTS:  Review PART 3 EXECUTION and edit to comply with permit requirements for project
EXECUTION
GENERAL INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
All erosion and sediment control items shall be installed in strict conformance with the manufacturer's instructions for proprietary items. On-site construction methods shall conform to the Indiana Storm Water Quality Handbook.  
NTS:  If project includes permanent erosion control structures that are not to be constructed at the beginning of the project edit Paragraph "B" below. Consider adding additional paragraphs as necessary to clearly describe the Work. 
Prior to site work, erosion control measures shall be installed to control erosion and prevent sediment laden water from exiting the site.  This shall include, but not be limited to, the installation of temporary earthen berms, silt fences, filter curtains, riprap, drainage piping, catch basins, inlet protection and other items that are needed to control sediment.
Both temporary and final seeding is required.  Should any areas outside of the project area remain inactive for a period of 15 days or more, it shall be seeded with a temporary or permanent vegetative cover such as oats, wheat or rye.
Construction operations shall be carried out in such a manner and sequence that erosion shall be minimized and held within acceptable limits.  It is important that material excavated from this Project be contained.
INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
The Project area shall be inspected no less than once per week, and after every rainfall event greater than 0.5" in 24 hours. Deficiencies and damages to the erosion control measures must be rectified within 24 hours.
An Inspection and Maintenance form or record log shall be kept by the Contractor. 
The following Erosion Control Schedule shall be used for this Project:
NTS:  Add number of construction entrances to be included in this project
 CONTROL MEASURE
                                       
                             INSTALLATION SEQUENCE
                                       
                          INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE
                             Construction Entrance
                         Prior to Clearing and Grading
                  Minimum of (-) Entrances shall be Provided
                        Silt Fence Perimeter Protection
                         Prior to Clearing and Grading
                   Weekly, after Storm Events and as Needed
                     Existing Inlet/Drain Pipe Protection
                         Prior to Clearing and Grading
                   Weekly, after Storm Events and as Needed
                                Tree Protection
                           Along with Rough Grading
                   Weekly, after Storm Events and as Needed
                               Temporary Seeding
                              After Rough Grading
                                Water as Needed
                               Permanent Seeding
                             After Finish Grading
                                Water as Needed
                      Erosion Control Matting (Blankets)
                             After Finish Grading
                   Weekly, after Storm Events and as Needed
                               Inlet Protection
                          After Each Inlet is Placed
                   Weekly, after Storm Events and as Needed
                         Soil Stabilization (Seeding)
                  After Finish Grading Around Finished Inlets
                                Water as Needed
                          Removal of Inlet Protection
            After All Areas Draining to These Areas Are Stabilized
                                      N/A
                        Removal of Perimeter Protection
            After All Areas Draining to These Areas Are Stabilized
                                      N/A
+ + END OF SECTION + +


