
 ======================== Batesville ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Batesville ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Batesville ======================== Republican ======================== 

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL
CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section

Subject

Page

5.1

GENERAL

5-1

5.1.1
5.1.2

Water Main Construction, Connection to Water Main
References

5-1
5-1

5.2

DESIGN CRITERIA

5-3

5.2.1

Design

5-3

5.3

MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS

5-3

5.3.1
5.3.2
5.3.3
5.3.4
5.3.5
5.3.6
5.3.7
5.3.8
5.3.9
5.3.10
5.3.11
5.3.12

Product Handling
Pipe and Fittings
Joints
Fittings and Specials
Valves
Service Fittings
Tapping Sleeves
Valve Boxes
Fire Hydrants
Meter
Polyethylene Encasement
Flushing Hydrants

5-3
5-3
5-4
5-5
5-5
5-7
5-8
5-8
5-8
5-9
5-9
5-9

5.4

CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS

5-9

5.4.1
5.4.2
5.4.3
5.4.4
5.4.5
5.4.6
5.4.7
5.4.8
5.4.9
5.4.10

Surface Conditions
Field Measurement
Handling
Pipe Cutting
Installation of Pipe
General Trenching
Removal of Material
Joint Deflection
Placing and Laying
Covering Ends

5-9
5-9
5-10
5-10
5-10
5-13
5-14
5-14
5-15
5-16

TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Section
5.4.11
5.4.12
5.4.13
5.4.14
5.4.15
5.4.16
5.4.17
5.4.18
5.4.19

Subject
Stabilization
Backfilling
Compaction Testing
Jointing
Setting Valves and Valve Boxes
Restraining
Hydrant Locations
Testing and Inspecting
Record Drawings

Page
5-16
5-16
5-18
5-19
5-19
5-20
5-20
5-20
5-23

LIST OF FORMS
Title
Water Project Inspection Checklist
Pressure Leakage Test

Form No.
W-A
W-B

LIST OF DRAWINGS
Title
Fire Hydrant Assembly (Type I)
Fire Hydrant Assembly (Type II)
Fire Hydrant Assembly (Type III)
Fire Hydrant Assembly (Type V)
Typical Fire Hydrant Installation Detail
General Location of Fire Hydrants
(Reference to Curb and Sidewalk)
General Location of Fire Hydrants
(Reference to Streets)
Hydrant Drainage Pit Detail
Butterfly Valve Installation
Typical Gate Valve and Box
Round Way Connection
Restraint of Bends
Restraining Valves on Dead Ends
Restraint of Tees
Length and Method of Restraint
Methods of Restraining
Rod Restraint
Tie Rods, Nuts & Washers
Typical Curb Valve Installation Detail
Water Service Connection
Typical Residential Water Meter Pit Installation
Commercial/Industrial Meter Pit Installation
Water Main Air Valve Structure
Type J Waterproof Manhole Frame with Bolted Lid
Rigid Pipe Bedding Detail "Class A"
Rigid Pipe Bedding Detail "Class B"
Rigid Pipe Bedding Detail "Class C"

Drawing No.
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
W-6
W-7
W-8
W-9
W-10
W-11
W-12
W-13
W-14
W-15
W-16
W-17
W-18
W-19
W-20
W-21
W-22
W-23
W-24
W-25
W-26
W-27

LIST OF DRAWINGS (cont'd)
Title
Water Main Trench Detail
Backfill Requirements (within R/W for Improved Streets)
Backfill Requirements (For Crossing R/W for Improved Streets)

Drawing No.
W-28
W-29
W-30

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

SECTION 5.1:

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

GENERAL

5.1.1 WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION, CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER MAIN
A. Notify Batesville Water Utility not less than seventy-two (72) hours before the
start of construction. Batesville Water Utility reserves the right to inspect all
new water main or service installations for compliance with the standards.
5.1.2 References
A. ASME B31.3 - Process Piping
B. ASTM B88 - Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube
C. ASTM D1238 - Standard Test Method for Melt Flow Rates of Thermoplastics
by Extrusion Plastometer
D. ASTM D1505 - Standard Test Method for Density of Plastics by the DensityGradient Technique
E. ASTM D1556 - Standard Test Method for Density and Unit Weight of Soil in
Place by the Sand-Cone Method
F. ASTM D1557 - Standard Test Methods for Laboratory Compaction
Characteristics of Soil Using Modified Effort (56,000 ft-lbf/ft3(2,700 kNm/m3))
G. ASTM D2167 - Standard Test Method for Density and Unit Weight of Soil in
Place by the Rubber Balloon Method
H. ASTM D2241 - Standard Specification for Poly(Vinyl Chloride) (PVC)
Pressure-Rated Pipe (SDR Series)
I. ASTM D2922 - Standard Test Methods for Density of Soil and Soil-Aggregate
in Place by Nuclear Methods (Shallow Depth)
J. ASTM D3017 - Standard Test Method for Water Content of Soil and Rock in
Place by Nuclear Methods (Shallow Depth)
K. ASTM D3139 - Standard Specification for Joints for Plastic Pressure Pipes
Using Flexible Elastomeric Seals

L. ASTM F477 - Standard Specification for Elastomeric Seals (Gaskets) for
Joining Plastic Pipe
5-1

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

M. AWWA C104/ANSI A21.4 - American National Standard for Cement-Mortar
Lining for Ductile-Iron Pipe and Fittings for Water
N. AWWA C105/ANSI A21.5 - American National Standard for Polyethylene
Encasement for Ductile-Iron Pipe Systems
O. AWWA C111/ANSI A21.11 - Rubber-Gasket Joints for Ductile-Iron Pressure
Pipe and Fittings
P. AWWA C150/ANSI A21.10 - American National Standard for Thickness
Design of Ductile-Iron Pipe
Q. AWWA C151/ANSI A21.51 - American National Standard for Ductile-Iron
Pipe, Centrifugally Cast, for Water
R. AWWA C153/ANSI A21.53 - American National Standard for Ductile-Iron
Compact Fittings, 3 in. Through 24 in. (76 mm Through 610 mm) and 54 in.
Through 64 in. (1,400 mm Through 1,600 mm), for Water Service
S. AWWA C502 - Dry-Barrel Fire Hydrants
T. AWWA C504 - Rubber-Sealed Butterfly Valves
U. AWWA C509 - Resilient-Seated Gate Valves for Water-Supply Service
V. AWWA C600 - Standard for Installation of Ductile-Iron Water Mains and their
Appurtances
W. AWWA C651 - Disinfecting Water Mains
X. AWWA C800 - Underground Service Line Valves and Fittings
Y. AWWA C900 - Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Pressure Pipe, 4 in. through 12 in.,
for Water Distribution
Z. AWWA C901 - Standard for Polyethylene (PE) Pressure Pipe and Tubing,
1/2 in. (13 mm) Through 3 in. (76 mm), for Water Service

5-2

AA.

AWWA C905 - Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Water Transmission Pipe,
Nominal Diameters 14 In. through 36 In.

BB.

AWWA C906 - Standard for Polyethylene (PE) Pressure Pipe and
Fittings, 4 In. (100 mm) Through 63 In. (1,575 mm), for Water Distribution
Distribution and Transmission

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

SECTION 5.2:

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

DESIGN CRITERIA

5.2.1. DESIGN
A. Water mains shall be designed in accordance with the most current version
of 327 IAC Article 8-3 "Public Water Supply Construction Permits." An August
1, 2003 version of 327 IAC Article 8-3 is shown in Appendix E

SECTION 5.3:

MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS

5.3.1 PRODUCT HANDLING
A. Care of Pipe Fittings and Accessories:
All materials hauled to the site of construction by the Contractor, including
pipe, fittings, valves, hydrants and other accessories shall, unless
otherwise directed, be unloaded at the point of delivery, hauled to and
distributed at the site of the project by the Contractor. They shall at all
times be handled with care to avoid damage. In loading and unloading,
they shall be lifted by hoists or slid or rolled on skidways in such manner
as to avoid shock. Under no circumstances shall they be dropped. Pipe
handled on skidways must not be allowed to roll against pipe already on
the ground.
B. Care of Pipe:
Pipe shall be handled so as to avoid damage to its coating, lining and
structural integrity. If, however, any part of the coating or lining is
damaged, the repair shall be made by the Contractor at his expense in a
manner satisfactory to Batesville Water Utility before installation. Any
cracks, pipe fractures, or chipped ends shall be removed from the site.
5.3.2 PIPE AND FITTINGS
A. General:
1. Pipe materials 4" size and larger: Use ductile iron, P.V.C., or P.E. pipes.
2. Pipe materials 2” only: Use Type K copper, P.V.C., or P.E. piping.
3. Pipe materials ¾” to 2” size: Use Type K copper.
B. Pipe:
1. Ductile iron pipe:
a. Comply with AWWA C151/ANSI A-21.51, with working pressure of not
less than 150 psi unless otherwise shown or specified.
b. Use cement mortar lining complying with AWWA C104/ANSI A-21.4.
c. Design and manufacture pipe for a working pressure of 150 psi plus
100 psi surge and a safety factor of 2 and a depth of cover indicated
on the Drawings and specified in this Section. Minimum pressure
5-3

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

class shall be as follows:
Size Range
4"-12"
14"-20"
24"

Pressure Class
350
250
200

2. Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe (P.V.C.):
a. For 4” & larger pipe: Comply with AWWA C900 and C905
requirements, Class 150-pressure pipe and DR-18 unless otherwise
specified.
b. For 2” pipe only: Comply with ASTM D2241 requirements, with a
working pressure of 200 psi and SDR-21 unless otherwise specified.
3. Copper:
a. Use Type K copper in conformance with ASTM B88.
4. Polyethylene Pipe (P.E):
a. For 4” & larger pipe: Comply with AWWA C906 requirements with
working pressure not less than 160 psi and DR-11 unless otherwise
specified.
b. For 2” pipe only: AWWA C901, CTS SDR-9 (PE 3408), 200psi
5.3.3 JOINTS
A. Ductile iron pipe:
1. Mechanical joints of the stuffing-box type complying with AWWA
C111/ANSI A-21.11; or
2. Use push on joints complying with AWWA C111/ANSI A-21.11.
B. P.V.C. pipe:
1. For 4” or larger pipe: Joints shall be of the slip joint type in accordance
with AWWA C111 standard for rubber joints.
2. For 2” pipe only: Use push on joints complying with ASTM D3139, with
which the elastomeric ring is manufactured in compliance with ASTM
F477
C. Copper pipe:
1. All buried copper services shall be joined with silver soldered copper,
brass compression, or brass treaded fittings prior to the meter.
D. Polyethylene pipe (P.E.):
1. For 2” pipe or larger: Use thermal butt fusion or electrofusion couplings.
Butt fusion bonding shall be performed in accordance with a written
bonding procedure specification (BPS) as required by ANSI/ASME B31.3,
Chapter VII, paragraph A-328. BPS shall include cutting and facing
requirements.
2.
5-4

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

5.3.4 FITTINGS AND SPECIALS
A. Ductile iron and P.V.C. Pipe (4” and larger):
1. Use ductile iron fittings and specials suitable for 150 psi pressure rating
unless otherwise specified.
2. For use with mechanical joint pipe, comply with AWWA C150/ANSI
A21.10.
3. For use with push-on joint pipe, comply with AWWA C150/ANSI A21.10
and AWWA C151/ANSI A21.11.
4. Use cement mortar lining complying with AWWA C104/ANSI A21.4,
standard thickness.
B. P.V.C. pipe (2” only):
1. Use ductile iron fittings and specials suitable for 150 psi pressure rating
unless otherwise specified. Threaded pipefittings shall not be allowed

C. Polyethylene Pipe (P.E.)
1. For pipe 4” and larger: Use a polyethylene flange assembly when
transitioning to pipes or appurtenances made of other materials. The
polyethylene flange assembly shall consist of a metal backup flange or
ring and a polyethylene stub-end or flange adapter in compliance with
AWWA C906.
2. For pipe 2” only: Use brass compression fittings prior to the meter.
Threaded pipefittings shall not be allowed.

5.3.5 VALVES
A. Gate valves:
1. Use gate valves designed for a working pressure of not less than 250 psi.
2. Provide connections as required for the piping in which they are installed.
3. Provide a clear waterway equal to the full nominal diameter of the valve,
openable by turning counter clockwise (left).
4. Provide an arrow on the operating nut or wheel, cast in metal, indicating
direction of opening.
5. Shall be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C509.
6. All ferrous parts shall be made of ductile iron. Bonnet and body metal
thickness shall exceed minimum thickness permitted by AWWA
C153/ANSI A21.53.
7. Wedge shall be ductile iron, one-piece, fully encapsulated in synthetic
rubber except for guide and wedge nut areas. Synthetic rubber shall be
molded in place and bonded to the wedge. Mechanical fasteners are not
allowed.
8. Valves shall be provided with two “O” rings above and one “O” ring below
the thrust collar. All stem seals shall be replaceable with the valve wide
5-5

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

open and while subjected to full rated pressure. Stem shall be removable.
9. Valve body and bonnet shall be coated, inside and out, with fusionbonded epoxy.
10. Bonnet, body, and stuffing box bolts and nuts shall be Series 300
stainless steel and must be installed and tested by the manufacturer.
11. Shall have a full ten (10) year published money-back warranty.
12. Approved manufacturers of resilient wedge gate valves are Mueller,
Kennedy, or equal.
B. Check valves:
1. Use check valves designed for a working pressure of not less than 150
psi, or as indicated or directed, with a clear waterway equal to the full
nominal diameter of the valve.
2. Use valves designed to permit flow in one direction, when the inlet
pressure is greater than the discharge pressure, and to close tightly to
prevent return flow when discharge pressure exceeds inlet pressure.
3. Distinctly cast on the body of each valve:
a. Manufacturer's name, initials, or trademark by which he can be
identified readily;
b. Valve size;
c. Working pressure;
d. Direction of flow.
4. Valves 2" and smaller: Provide all bronze.
5. Valves larger than 2":
a. Provide ductile iron body, bronze mounted, with flanged ends, of the
non-slam type;
b. Provide class 125 flanges complying with ASME B16.1.
6. Valves shall be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C-508
7. Approved manufacturers of check valves are Clow, Mueller, or equal.
C. Butterfly Valves:
1. Butterfly valves shall be manufactured to conform in all respects to the
latest revisions of AWWA C504 and coated inside and outside with
standard fusion-bonded epoxy coating for water mains. The body, disc,
shaft, seats, bearings and operators shall be designed based on Class
150B and may be of the short or long body type. The seat-ring shall be
made of rubber, located in the body. The shaft may be of the through type
or stub type and shall be marked on the end to indicate the position of the
valve disc with respect to the shaft.
2. The valve disc shall be of the corrosion-resistant alloy cast iron. The
valves shall be equipped with a stainless steel stop in the body to prevent
the disc from rotating through the closed position. The shaft seals shall be
of the "split V" or "chevron" type. The operator shall be permanently
lubricated and sealed for buried service and shall be equipped with a
two-inch square operating nut. The operator shall be constructed such
that the valve will open when the nut is turned to the left or in a
counter-clockwise direction. Operators for valves sixteen inches and
5-6

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

twenty inches in size may be traveling nut or worm gear type. Operators
for twenty-four inch and larger shall be of the worm gear type.
3. All screws, bolts and/or nuts used in the assembly of the valve and
exposed to the soil, when buried, shall be made of stainless steel or
brass. 4. In general, butterfly valves used in connection with ductile iron
pipe shall be equipped with standard mechanical joint ends complete with
all accessories.
5. Acceptable butterfly valve manufacturers are Mueller, Pratt, Kennedy, or
equal.
5.3.6 SERVICE FITTINGS
A. Curb stops:
1, All curb stops, 3/4-inch through 2-inch size, shall be ball type valves of
extra heavy, all brass construction with inlets and outlets machined and
threaded for use with flared or compression joints, and furnished with two
(2) coupling nuts, all in accordance with the latest revisions of the AWWA
Standard, designated C800, shall have a heavy or thick tee-head
operator, and a 90 degree rotation of the plug or ball.
2. Each stop shall be equipped with a curb box of either cast iron, Buffalo
type, arch pattern or 3 inch PVC with cast iron lid.
3. Curb stops shall have a maximum working pressure of 300 psi.
4. The following or approved equals are the curb stops which will be
accepted for use in connection with water service installations:
Brand Name
Mueller

Catalog Number
B25209R

B. Corporation Stops:
1. All corporation stops, 3/4-inch thru 2-inches in size, shall be plug or ball
type valves of extra heavy, all brass construction, shall have a flat, thick
operating head, a 360 degree rotation of the operating head, and plug
type valves shall have a washer and adjusting nut on the bottom of the
plug, all in accordance with the latest revisions of the AWWA C800.
2. Corporation stops shall have a maximum working pressure of 100 psi or
greater.
3. The inlet shall be machined and threaded with AWWA / CC Taper threads
only, the outlet shall be machined and threaded for use with flared, or
compression joints, and furnished with one (1) coupling nut.
4. The following or approved equals, are the corporation stops that will be
accepted for use in connection with water service installations:

Brand Name
Mueller
Ford

Catalog Number
H15008
F1000Q
5-7

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

C. Service Saddles:
1. The following bronze service saddles or approved equal shall be the only
service saddles accepted for use in connection with water service
installations.
Brand Name
Mueller
Ford

Catalog Number
H13440 series
S90 series

Pipe Type
C900 PVC
C900 PVC

Brand Name
Mueller
Ford

Catalog Number
H13420
S70

Pipe Type
2” IPS
2” IPS

D. Service Line Coupling:
1. The following service line couplings, or approved equal, shall be used as
necessary during the course of a water service line installation. The
coupling shall be a compression connection for CTS O.D. tubing, both
ends.
Brand Name
Mueller
Ford

Catalog Number
H15403
C44Q

5.3.7 TAPPING SLEEVES
A. Provide full-size mechanical joint sleeve type coupling or stainless steel
heavy-duty band type for existing water mains, furnished with outlet flanged
to American 125 standard (ASA series 15):
1. Coordinate requirements of tapping sleeves with gate valves and other
fittings as required.
5.3.8 VALVE BOXES
A. Valve Boxes:
1. All valve boxes, referred to in these standards, shall be cast iron, screw
type boxes or 6 inch PVC C-900 pipe with a cast iron “top hat” style top
piece The word "WATER" shall be cast in the lid.
2. The valve boxes shall be five and one-quarter (5 1/4) inch shaft size and
piece type with a round base.
5.3.9 FIRE HYDRANTS
A. Fire hydrants used in the construction of the water main shall be of the traffic
model design and shall be made in accordance with the latest revisions of
5-8

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

AWWA C502. They shall have a six (6) inch mechanical joint bell inlet at the
base and all jointing accessories. Valves shall be 5 1/4 inch minimum and
open to the left (counter-clockwise). operated by the main operating rod.
Design shall allow for plugging of drains without excavating. Hydrants shall
be equipped with a six (6) inch branch gate valve and box between it and the
main to which it is connected. The 4 ½-inch pumper nozzle shall be National
Standard Threads. Nozzles to be mechanically attached with ductile iron
retainer and sealed with an “O” ring. Nozzle section, upper and lower barrel,
and shoe shall be of ductile iron construction. capability by loosening flange
bolts.

Fire hydrant coating shall meet the requirements of AWWA C502. Paint
color shall be Safety XXXXX
Yellow. Red for City Hydrants and Yellow for private.

Contact the Water Utility to determine if your installation will be private or public.

B. Approved manufacturer and model of hydrants is: Mueller A-423 “Super
Centurion 250.
5.3.10

METER,
A. When water service connections are made, the Batesville Water Utility will
supply the meter, which shall be subject to fees and charges.

5.3.11

POLYETHYLENE ENCASEMENT
A.The polyethylene encasement film shall be 8-mil in thickness and shall meet
the requirements of AWWA C105.

5.3.12

FLUSHING HYDRANTS
A. Flushing hydrants shall be used for the purposes of water main flushing only.
The manufacturer of a flushing hydrant shall be Mueller Co. The model
numbers are: A-411with one 2-1/2inch hose nozzle, A-412, A-408, A-410 or
approved equal.

SECTION 5.4:

CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS

5.4.1 SURFACE CONDITIONS
A. Examine the areas and conditions under which work of this Section will be
performed. Correct all conditions detrimental to timely and proper completion of
the Work. Do not proceed until unsatisfactory conditions are corrected.
5.4.2 FIELD MEASUREMENT
A. Make necessary measurements in the field to assure precise fit of items in
5-9

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

accordance with the approved design.
5.4.3 HANDLING
A. Handle pipe accessories so as to ensure delivery to the trench in sound,
undamaged condition:
1. Carry pipe into position; do not drag.
2. Use nylon slings for lifting, aligning or turning the pipe.
B. Thoroughly clean interior of pipe and accessories before lowering pipe into
trench. Keep clean during laying operations by plugging or other method
approved by the Batesville Water Utility.
C. Before installation, inspect each piece of pipe and each fitting for defects:
1. Material found to be defective before or after laying: Replace with sound
material meeting the specified requirements.
D. Rubber gaskets: Store in a cool dark place until just prior to time of installation.
5.4.4 PIPE CUTTING
A. Cut pipe neatly and without damage to the pipe.
5.4.5 INSTALLATION OF PIPE
A. Trenching
1. All poles, fences, sewer, gas, water or other pipes, wires, conduits,
manholes, buildings, structures and property in the proximity of any
excavation shall be supported and protected from damage by the Contractor
during construction.
2. Wherever sewer, gas, water or other pipes or conduits cross the excavation,
the Contractor shall support said pipes and conduits without damage to them
and without interrupting their use during the progress of the Work. The
manner of supporting such pipes, etc., shall be subject to review by
Batesville Water Utility.
3. All property shall be thoroughly cleaned of all surplus materials, earth and
rubbish placed thereon by the Contractor.
4. The Contractor shall notify Batesville Water Utility and the appropriate utility
companies at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the start of construction.
a. The Contractor shall coordinate all utility companies location of any
existing underground utilities and structures within the site limits.
c. The Contractor, prior to the start of construction, shall verify the
location of any existing underground utilities and structures within the
site limits. It is the Contractor's responsibility to make any and all
exploratory investigation, which may be necessary to verify or locate
the utility pipe, wires, structures and appurtenances of others.
5. Where service lines are to be constructed across paved roadways, the
5-10

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

service lines shall be installed by the bore and jack method unless otherwise
directed by the Batesville Water Utility.
B. Locations
1. Locate water pipe at least ten feet away, horizontally, from sewer pipes
(measured edge to edge).
2. Where water lines cross under gravity-flow sewer lines at less than 18 inches
vertical separation, replace the sewer pipe and provide ductile iron pressure
pipe that is also suitable for sewer service. No ductile iron pipe joint shall be
located within 60 inches of the crossing.
3. Do not place water lines in the same trench with sewer lines or electric wiring.
4. Water pipe shall have a minimum of 4 feet of cover
C. Backfill Materials
1. Trench backfill in paved shall be “B” Borrow, sand, Coarse Aggregate No.12,
or Flowable fill. The “B”-Borrow, or sand shall comply with Section 211 of the
INDOT Standard Specifications, current edition. Coarse Aggregate No.12
material shall comply with Section 904 of the INDOT Standard Specifications,
current addition. Flowable fill shall be in accordance with Section 213 of the
INDOT Standard Specifications, current edition.
2. Trench backfill in unpaved areas shall be earth backfill material containing no
more than 5% organic material, no particles larger than four inches and shall
be free of trash, rubble and debris. The Plastic Index of the fraction passing
the no. 40 sieve shall not be more than 25.
3. Coarse aggregate material for pavement subbase shall be No. 53 or 73
complying with INDOT standard Specifications, current edition.
4. For all other references, fine granular material shall be sand complying with
Section 211 of the INDOT Standard Specifications, current edition or Coarse
Aggregate No. 12 stone complying with Section 904 of the INDOT Standard
Specifications, current edition.

D. Bedding, Rigid Pipe
1. Each pipe shall be laid in Class "B" bedding unless specifically noted
otherwise, as shown on the plans and the construction standard drawings. All
costs for bedding shall be included in the cost of the water main pipe.
a. Definition of Terms for Bedding Explanation
Bc = Outside diameter of pipe, in inches
D = Inside diameter of pipe, in inches
d = Depth of bedding material below the pipe bell,
in inches
The values of "d", depth of bedding material below the bell of the pipe
5-11

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

shall be as follows:
"D" (inside diameter of pipe, in.) "d" (depth of bedding material)
Minimum Requirements
27" and smaller
3"
30" and larger
4"
2. Class "A" Bedding (Concrete Cradle)
a. Class "A" bedding is that method of bedding in which the conduit is set on
"d" inches of concrete in an earth foundation and encased in concrete up
to 1/4" of "Bc" to fit the lower part of the conduit's exterior breadth. The
remainder of the conduit is to be surrounded to a height of at least twelve
(12) inches above its top by densely compacted granular backfill material
carefully placed by hand to completely fill all spaces under and adjacent
to the conduit.
The fill to be tamped thoroughly on each side of the conduit, as far as
practicable, shall be in layers not to exceed six (6) inches in thickness.
b. The concrete used for Class "A" bedding shall be plain concrete with a
28-day compressive strength of 3,000 psi, unless otherwise specified.
Refer to "Water Main Construction Details" of the Construction Standards
for further details on Class "A" bedding.
3. Class "B" Bedding
a. Class "B" bedding is that method of bedding in which the conduit is set on
"d" inches of a fine granular material in an earth foundation, carefully
shaped to fit the lower part of the conduit exterior for a width of at least
60% of the conduit's breadth, and then proceeding to a minimum depth of
½ of the pipe diameter around the pipe. The remainder of the conduit is
to be surrounded to a height of at least twelve (12) inches above its top
by the fine granular material carefully placed by hand to completely fill all
spaces under and adjacent to the conduit. The fill to be tamped
thoroughly on each side and under the conduit, as far as practicable, in
layers not to exceed six (6) inches in thickness. Bell excavation is to be
provided. Refer to "Water Main Construction Details" of the Construction
Standards for further details on Class "B" Bedding.
b. Class "B" bedding material shall meet the gradation as set forth in the
INDOT Standard Specifications, current edition, Section 904.
4. Class "C" Bedding
a. Class "C" bedding is that method of bedding in which the conduit is set on
an earth foundation, carefully shaped to fit the lower part of the conduit
exterior for a width of at least 50% of the conduit's breadth. The
remainder of the conduit is to be surrounded to a height of at least twelve
(12) inches above its top by lightly compacted granular backfill material
5-12

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

carefully around the exterior of the conduit. Bell excavation is to be
provided. Refer to "Water Main Construction Details" of the Construction
Standards for further details on Class "C" Bedding.
5.4.6 GENERAL TRENCHING
A. Unless otherwise directed or permitted, not more than one hundred feet
(100') of any trench shall be open at any time.
B. Surface encumbrances, located so as to create a hazard to employees
involved in excavation work or in the vicinity thereof at any time during
operations, shall be removed or made safe before excavating is begun.

C. During excavation, material satisfactory for backfilling shall be stockpiled in
an orderly manner at a distance from the banks of the trench sufficient to
avoid overloading and to prevent slides and cave-ins. Adequate drainage
shall be provided for the stockpiles and surrounding areas by means of
ditches, dikes, or other approved methods. The stockpiles shall also be
protected from contamination with unsatisfactory excavated material or other
material that may destroy the quality and fitness of the suitable stockpiled
material. If the Contractor fails to protect the stockpiles and any material
becomes unsatisfactory as a result, such material, if directed by the
Batesville Water Utility inspector, shall be removed and replaced with
satisfactory on-site or imported material from approved sources.
D. Grading shall be done as may be necessary to prevent surface water from
flowing into the excavation, and any water accumulating therein shall be
removed so that the stability of the bottom and sides of the excavation is
maintained. In wet trenches dewatering equipment shall be operated ahead
of pipe laying and the water level kept below the pipe invert.
E. The trench shall be excavated as shown in the Standards or as
recommended by the manufacturer of the pipe to be installed, whichever is
more stringent. Trench walls below and above the top of the pipe shall be
sloped, or made vertical, as recommended in the manufacturer's installation
manual. The trench width below an elevation one foot above the top of pipe
shall not exceed that recommended in the installation manual. Where no
manufacturer's installation manual is available, trench walls below an
elevation one foot above the top of pipe shall be vertical and trench walls one
foot or more above the top of pipe shall be adequately sloped as required to
prevent slides and cave-ins unless proper precautions, as stipulated by
OSHA, are taken. If adequate trench slopes cannot be provided in the
available work space and right-of-way limits, then use of sheeting and
shoring and/or a trench box is mandatory.
5-13

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

F. Excavation for manholes or similar structures shall be sufficient to leave at
least 12 inches clear between the outer structure surfaces and the face of the
excavation or support members and be of sufficient size to permit the
placement and removal of forms for the full length and width of structure
footings and foundations. When concrete is to be placed in an excavated
area, special care shall be taken not to disturb the bottom of the excavation.
Excavation to the final grade level shall not be made until just before the
concrete is to be placed.
G. Dust conditions shall be kept to a minimum by the use of water. The use of
salt, or calcium chloride will not be permitted.
5.4.7 REMOVAL OF MATERIAL
A. As trenches are backfilled, the Contractor shall remove all surplus material,
regrade and leave clear, free, and in good order all roadways and sidewalks
affected by the construction of the work. During the progress of and until the
expiration of the guarantee period, he shall maintain in good and safe
conditions the surface or any street over the trenches and promptly fill all
depressions over and adjacent to trenches caused by settlement of
backfilling.
B. Surplus or unsatisfactory excavated material shall be properly disposed of at
a location off the property limits.
5.4.8 JOINT DEFLECTION
A. Ductile iron pipe:
1. Maximum allowable deflection will be given in AWWA C600.
2. Table 5.4 shows maximum deflections for 18 foot lengths of pipe. For other
lengths, deflection may vary proportionately.

Diameter
4”
6”
8”
10”
12”

Table 5.4 Ductile Iron Pipe Deflection
Push-On Joint Pipe
19”
19”
19”
19”
19”

Mechanical Joint Pipe
31”
27”
20”
20”
20”

3. If alignment requires deflection exceeding limits shown in Table 5.4, furnish
special bends or a sufficient number of shorter lengths of pipe to provide
angular deflections within the limits shown.
4. Locate water mains as shown on the plans. Deviation from plan location must
be approved by the Batesville Water Utility inspector prior to installation.
B. Plastic pipe: Unless a lesser amount is recommended by the pipe manufacturer,
5-14

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

maximum allowable deflections from a straight line or grade, or offsets, will be
five degrees.
5.4.9 PLACING AND LAYING
A. General:
1. Lower pipe and accessories into trench by means of derrick, ropes, belt
slings.
2. Do not dump or drop any of the materials of this Section into the trench.
3. Except where necessary in making connections to other lines, lay pipe
with the bells facing in the direction of laying.
4. Rest the full length of each section of pipe solidly on the pipe bed, with
recesses excavated to accommodate bells, couplings, and joints.
5. Take up and relay pipe that has the grade or joint disturbed after laying.
6. Do not lay pipe in water, or when trench conditions are unsuitable for the
work; keep water out of the trench until jointing is completed.
7. Securely close open ends of pipe, fittings, and valves when work is not in
progress.
8. Where any part of coating or lining is damaged, replace pipe section or
repair to the approval of the Batesville Water Utility inspector.
9. Ductile Iron pipe, fittings, valves, bolted sleeves, and other components of
dissimilar metal when buried in corrosive soils or backfill shall have loose
polyethylene encasement film installed in accordance with AWWA C105.
B. Polyethylene and P.V.C. pipe (2” only):
1. Position pipe and fittings in trench in a manner that identifying markings
will be readily visible for inspection.
2. Cutting and joining:
a. Protect against abrasion from serrated holding devices.
b. Remove burrs and glosses from surfaces to be jointed; use abrasive
paper, file, or steel wool.
c. Remove dirt, dust, and moisture by wiping clean with chemical cleaner
or dry cloth.
3. Do not thread plastic pipe; make connections only with the solvent
cement or with special adapter fittings designed for the purpose.
4. Align pipe system components without strain.
5. Support piping at intervals of not more than four feet, at ends, branch
fittings, and change of direction or elevation.
6. Support plastic pipe in trenches with a 3" layer of sand. Allow no rocks,
debris, or potentially damaging substances within 6" of plastic pipe in
trenches.
7. Provide an electrically continuous insulated 10-gauge solid copper
insulated tracer wire in the trench above the pipe, fastened to the pipe at
20-foot intervals. The wire shall come above ground every 500’ through a
3” PVC marking post that will be supplied by the Batesville Water Utility.
There shall be an 18" minimum lead of wire left at the top of the marking
5-15

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

post. All underground connections shall be made with brass split nuts,
and sealed or taped. A one pound anode shall be attached to the tracer
wire every 1000 feet. The anode will be supplied by the Batesville Water
Utility and billed to the contractor.
C. Connections: Use specials and fittings to suit the actual conditions where
connections are made between new work and existing mains. Use only those
specials and fittings approved by the Batesville Water Utility.
D. Sleeves:
1. Where pipe passes through walls of valve pits or structures, provide
P.V.C. or cast iron wall sleeves.
2. Fill annular space between walls and sleeves with rich cement mortar.
3. Fill annular space between pipe and sleeves with high-grade chaulk
5.4.10

COVERING ENDS
A. Before leaving the Work for the night, during a storm, or for any other reason,
care must be taken that the unfinished end of any pipe is securely closed
with a tightly fitting cover or plug. Any earth or other material that may find
entrance into the pipe, through any such open end of an unplugged pipe shall
be removed at the Contractor's expense.

5.4.11

STABILIZATION
A. If portions of the bottom of trenches or excavations consist of material
unstable to such a degree that, in the opinion of Batesville Water Utility
inspector, it cannot adequately support the pipe or structure, the bottom shall
be overexcavated and stabilized with granular material in compliance with the
INDOT Standard Specifications, current edition. Depth of stabilization shall
be as directed by the Inspector.

5.4.12

BACKFILLING
A. Pipe bedding and initial backfill shall be as shown on the Water Main
Construction Details of the Construction Standards. Initial backfill shall be
placed in lifts of a maximum of 6 inches loose thickness. The method for
placing and compacting the backfill shall comply with the INDOT Standard
Specifications as applicable. At a minimum, the Contractor shall use a
vibrating plate compactor with adequate “passes” to achieve compaction.
The backfill shall be brought up evenly on both sides of pipe for the full length
of pipe. Care shall be taken to ensure thorough compaction of the fill under
pipe haunches.
B. Final backfill for the remainder of the trenches shall be as follows:
1. Backfill for trenches under sidewalks, under turfed or seeded areas, and
in miscellaneous areas shall be of approved earth material and contain no

5-16

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

stones over four inches (4") in their largest dimensions. Stones which are
used in backfilling shall be distributed among the earth backfill so that all
interspaces are filled with fine material. All such backfilling shall be
deposited in lifts of a maximum 12 inches loose thickness and compacted
with a vibrating plate compactor or approved mechanical tamping
devices. Excess earth to the amount required to replace settlement shall
be neatly rounded over the trench and the remainder hauled off the work
site. Trenches shall be maintained by the Contractor until settlement has
ceased and trenches remain level with the adjacent ground.
2. Backfill of all trenches under existing or proposed roadways and structural
footings or slabs shall be “B” Borrow, Coarse Aggregate No.12, or sand.
In addition, the top seven (7) inches below the base of the pavement shall
be backfilled with no. 53 or 73 crushed stone unless flowable fill is used
for backfilling per item 5.4.12.B.3. The backfill shall be placed in 6"
maximum lifts and the method of placing and compacting the backfill shall
comply with the INDOT Standard Specifications, as applicable. At a
minimum, the Contractor shall use a vibrating plate compactor with
adequate “passes” to achieve compaction.
3. Flowable fill shall be used as backfill for trenches under or within five (5)
feet of existing city streets as shown on the “Water Main Construction
Details” of the Construction Standards. Flowable fill shall be used as
required by the City Street Superintendent or on a case by case basis.
Flowable fill shall be placed up to the base of the pavement section. Allow
a minimum of 24 hours of curing time for the flowable fill prior to
placement of the pavement section.

C. Pipe bedding and each backfill lift shall be compacted to a dry density not
less than the following percentage of maximum dry density as determined by
the Modified Proctor Test (ASTM D1557):
Usage
Beneath piping
Upper 2 feet of backfill under roadways
Under roadways (except upper 2 feet of backfill)
Under haunches and up to springline of pipe
From springline to 12 inches above top of pipe
Adjacent to (or behind) vertical walls
Under turfed or seeded areas below topsoil, and
miscellaneous area (from 12” above pipe to surface)

Compaction %
95
95
92
95
90
90
85

D. No fill shall be placed against any structure until placed concrete has been
allowed to cure for at least 3 days. Backfill shall be placed in such a manner
that the structure will not be damaged by shock from falling earth. The
backfill material shall be deposited and compacted as specified for final
5-17

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

backfill, and shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent eccentric loading
and excessive stress on the structure. Heavy equipment for spreading and
compacting shall not operate closer to foundation walls than set forth as
follows.
E. Fill placed adjacent to vertical or near vertical walls (within a zone defined by
imaginary lines extending horizontally away from the base of the wall for a
distance of three feet and thence upward and outward on a one to one slope
to the elevation of the top of the wall) shall be compacted to the specified
density with light equipment not exceeding 1500 pounds in static weight or
dynamic rated impact.
5.4.13

COMPACTION TESTING
A. Sampling and testing shall be the responsibility of the Contractor. Tests
shall be performed by an approved commercial testing laboratory or may
be tested with approved facilities furnished by the Contractor.
B. Laboratory tests for moisture-density relations shall be determined in
accordance with ASTM D1557. A minimum of one test shall be
performed on each different type of material used for backfill.
C. Field In-Place Density Tests:
1. Shall be performed in sufficient numbers to ensure that the specified
compaction is being obtained. A minimum of one test per lift of
backfill for every 200 feet of installation shall be performed. Locations
for performing the density tests will be coordinated with the Batesville
Water Utility inspector.
2. Shall be determined in accordance with ASTM D1556, ASTM D2167
or ASTM D2922. When ASTM D2922 is used, the calibration curves
shall be checked and adjusted using only the sand cone method as
per ASTM D1556. ASTM D2922 results in a wet unit weight of soil
and when using this method, ASTM D3017 shall be used to determine
the moisture content of the soil. The calibration curves furnished with
the moisture gages shall be checked along with density calibration
checks as described in ASTM D3017. The calibration checks of both
the density and moisture gages shall be made at the beginning of a
job, on each different type of material encountered and at intervals as
directed by Batesville Water Utility inspector. Copies of calibration
curves and results of calibration tests shall be furnished to the
Batesville Water Utility inspector.
D. All test results shall be submitted to the Batesville Water Utility inspector.
E. Trenches improperly compacted shall be reopened to the depth directed
by the inspector and then refilled and compacted to the density specified.

5-18

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

Field in-place density tests shall also be repeated for improperly
compacted trenches that are reopened, refilled and recompacted. A
minimum of one repeat test per lift of backfill for every 200 feet of
improperly compacted trench that is reopened, refilled and recompacted
shall be performed.
5.4.14

JOINTING
A. Pipe joints:
1. Ductile iron pipe, mechanical joints, and push-on type joints: Install in
accordance with AWWA C600, modified as necessary by the
recommendation of ductile iron pipe.
2. Make connections between different types of pipes and accessories
with transition fittings.
3. Rubber gaskets: Handle, lubricate where necessary, and install in
strict accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer.
4. Polyethylene Pipe and quality assurance. The pipe and fittings
manufacturer shall have an established quality control program
responsible for inspecting incoming materials and outgoing pipe and
fittings and components. Incoming polyethylene materials shall be
inspected for density per ASTM D1505 and melt flow rate per ASTM
D1238, and contamination. The supplier shall certify all incoming
materials. Certifications shall be verified by the pipe manufacturer and
submitted to the Engineer.

5.4.15

SETTING VALVES AND VALVE BOXES
A. General:
1. Center valve boxes on the valves, setting plumb.
2. Tamp earth fill around each valve box to a distance of four feet on all
sides, or to the undisturbed trench face if less than four feet.
3. Tighten stuffing boxes, and fully open and close each valve to assure
that all parts are in working condition.
B. Service boxes:
1. Where water lines are located below paved streets having curbs,
install boxes directly back of the curbs.
2. Where no curbing exists, install boxes in accessible locations beyond
limits of street surfacing, walks, and driveways or as shown on the
drawings.

5-19

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

5.4.16

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

RESTRAINING
A. General:
1. Acceptable methods of restraining joints, fittings, bends, and valves
below grade shall be as follows.
a. Restrainers for PVC pipe shall be manufactured by Uni-Flange,
Series 900, 1300, 1350, 1390, Mega-Lug, or approved equal.
b. MJ restraining glands for D.I. pipe shall be manufactured by EBAA
Iron, Series 1200; Romac Industries, Style MJR6; or approved
equal.
c. Provide stainless steel nuts, bolts, and rods for the stainless steel
tie bolt restraining system or approved equal Use Romac “Ductile
Lug” or approved equal in lieu of eye bolts.
B. Installation:
1. Refer to the “Water Main Construction Details” of the Construction
Standards for determining the proper location and amount of required
restraint.

5.4.17

HYDRANT LOCATIONS
A. Fire hydrants shall be located as shown on the “Water Main Construction
Details” of the Construction Standards.
B. Flushing hydrants shall be used for the purpose of flushing water mains.
Flushing hydrants shall be located on the dead ends of water mains of
less than 6 inches in diameter, or in locations where standard fire
hydrants are not required but water main flushing is needed.

5.4.18

TESTING AND INSPECTING
A. Contractor shall notify Batesville Water Utility at least forty-eight (48)
hours in advance of starting construction to make arrangements for
inspection and shut-down of existing water main, where required.
B. All pressure and leakage tests shall conform to the latest revisions of
AWWA standards or the Batesville Water Utility specifications, as herein
defined, whichever is most stringent.
C. Closing uninspected work: Do not allow or cause any of the work of this
Section to be covered up or enclosed until after if has been completely
inspected by the Batesville Water Utility inspector.
D. Hydrostatic tests:

5-20

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

1. Where any section of a water line is provided with concrete thrust
blocking for fittings, do not make hydrostatic tests until at least five
days after installation of the concrete thrust blocking, unless otherwise
directed by the Batesville Water Utility inspector.
2. Devise a method for disposal of waste water from hydrostatic tests,
and for disinfection, as approved in advance by the Batesville Water
Utility inspector.
E. Pressure tests:
1. After the pipe is laid, the joints completed, fire hydrants permanently
installed, and the trench backfilled, subject the newly laid piping and
valved sections of water distribution and service piping to a
hydrostatic pressure of 150 psi for a minimum period of two hours.
2. Valves within the test segment shall not be operated in either direction
at a differential pressure exceeding the rated valve working pressure.
3. Replace or remake joints showing visible leakage.
a. Remove cracked pipe, defective pipe, and cracked or defective
joints, fittings, and valves. Replace with sound material and repeat
the test until results are satisfactory.
b. Make repair and replacement without additional cost to the Owner.
4. The pressure in the water main shall not vary more than 5± psi during
the 2-hour test.
F. Leakage test:
1. Conduct leakage test.
2. Duration of each leakage test: At least two hours.
3. During the test, subject water lines to a pressure of 150psi with no
more than 5± psi variance during the test period.
4. Leakage is defined as the quantity of water to be supplied into the
newly laid pipe, or any valved or approved section thereof, necessary
to maintain the specified leakage test pressure after the pipe has been
filled with water and the air expelled.
a. No piping installation will be accepted until the leakage is less than
the number of gallons per hour as determined by the following
table:

5-21

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

TABLE 5.4.18: Allowable Leakage per 1,000 Feet of
Pipeline at 150 PSI Test Pressure
(Gallons per hour)

Size

Leakage

Size

Leakage

4"

0.37

14"

1.29

6"

0.55

16"

1.47

8"

0.74

18"

1.66

10"

0.92

20"

1.84

12"

1.10

24"

2.21

30"

2.76

Above table based on Mechanical or Push-On joint with 18-foot
nominal lengths. For pipe with 20-foot nominal lengths, multiply
above leakage by 0.9.
b. Should any test of pipe disclose leakage greater than that
specified in Table 5.4.18, locate and repair the defective joint or
joints until the leakage is within the specified allowance, and at no
additional cost to the Owner.
c. Allowable leakage may also be determined by the allowable
leakage formula as detailed in the AWWA Standards.
G. Time for making test:
1. Except for joint material setting, or where concrete reaction backing
necessitates a five day delay, pipelines jointed with rubber gaskets,
mechanical, or pushon joints, or couplings may be subjected to
hydrostatic pressure, inspected, and tested for leakage at any time
after partial completion of backfill.
H. Disinfection:
1. Before acceptance of the potable water system, disinfect each unit of
completed water supply, distribution, and service line in accordance
with AWWA C651.
2. Perform all such tests and disinfection in a manner approved by IDEM
and the Batesville Water Utility.
3. Furnish copies of two consecutive satisfactory bacteriological analysis
from an independent laboratory to the Batesville Water Utility
inspector, as required by IDEM.
4. The method of chlorination shall be in accordance with AWWA C651,
unless approved otherwise by the Batesville Water Utility inspector in
advance.

5-22

CITY OF BATESVILLE
DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS MANUAL

5.4.19

CHAPTER 5
WATER SPECIFICATIONS

RECORD DRAWINGS
A. No water system shall be accepted by the City of Batesville unless the
installer provides at least two sets of “As Built” drawings. The “As Built”
drawings shall show the actual location of the water mains, valves, hydrants
and any other appurtenances. All measurements shall be referenced to
permanent landmarks. The results of all testing shall also be submitted. “AsBuilt” drawings and test results shall be certified by a registered engineer.

END OF SECTION

5-23



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 3/10/15
SECTION 33 31 00
SANITARY SEWER PIPING INSTALLATION
NTS:  Portions of this section contain detailed descriptive requirements of the product(s) of the named manufacturer(s).  If the product of another manufacturer (where named) is to be included as acceptable, this section may require editing.
This section may be used for the installation of sanitary sewer force mains as well as sanitary sewer gravity piping.  
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals as shown, specified, and required to install and test all buried piping, and special items.  The Work includes the following:
NTS:  Coordinate below with applicable sections of Divisions 31 and 33 to ensure proper installation specifications for all buried piping.  Edit as required.  
All types and sizes of buried sanitary sewer piping, except where buried piping installations are specified under other Sections.
Unless otherwise shown or specified, this Section includes all buried sanitary sewer piping Work required, beginning at the outside face of structures or structure foundations.
Work on or affecting existing buried piping.
Installation of all jointing and gasket materials, special items, flexible couplings, mechanical couplings, and other Work required.
Supports.
Pipe encasements, with the exception of piping embedded in concrete within a structure or foundation. 	
Field quality control, including testing.
Cleaning.
Incorporation of special items shown or specified into piping systems in accordance with the Contract Documents and as required.
Coordination:
Review installation procedures under this and other sections and coordinate installation of items to be installed with or before buried sanitary sewer piping Work.
Coordinate with appropriate piping materials sections of Division 33.
Related Sections:
NTS:  List below only sections covering products, construction, and equipment specifically identified in this section and specified in another section and directly referenced in this specification.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections.  
 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) the number and name of the Division 33 material section(s). Edit references to suit the project. 
Section 03 00 05, Concrete.
Section 31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork
Section (--1--).
NTS:  Section "1.2" is to be included if project is bid on unit price basis. Section to be deleted or revised if project is to be bid on lump sum basis.

NTS:  Adjust Section "1.2" below for additional work item numbers as needed. 
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
Pipe Installation:
Pipe installation is to be included in the measurement and payment of each pipe material and associated appurtenances installed.  
NTS:  Coordinate Paragraph "B.3" with other work specified, measured, and paid in Division 33 Utilities and Division 31 Earthwork.
    
NTS:  Coordinate Paragraph "B" below with 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork for flowable fill used for abandoned pipes.
Pipe Plugs (Bulkheads):
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 31 00-A Pipe Plugs
The payment quantity shall be the number of plugs actually installed.
Payment under this item shall be on a unit price basis regardless of plug size.
This price shall include all cost associated with: removal of surface improvements, excavation, disposal of excavated material, temporary sheeting, shoring, or bracing; dewatering, furnishing and placing Class A concrete for the bulkhead; furnishing, placing and compacting required backfill; and placing required surfacing. 
REFERENCES
NTS:  Retain applicable standards below. Add others as required. 
Standards referenced in this Section are listed below:
ASTM International.
ASTM D2321, Practice for Underground Installation of Thermoplastic Pipe for Sewers and other Gravity-Flow Applications. 
ASTM D2774, Practice for Underground Installation of Thermoplastic Pressure Piping.
ASTM D3262, Fiberglass (Glass-Fiber-Reinforced Thermosetting-Resin) Sewer Pipe. 
ASTM F2164, Standard Practice for Field Leak Testing of Polyethylene (PE) Pressure Piping Systems Using Hydrostatic Pressure.
American Water Works Association.
ANSI/AWWA C600, Installation of Ductile-Iron Water Mains and Their Appurtenances.
ANSI/AWWA C605, Underground Installation of Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Pressure Pipe and Fittings for Water.
AWWA M23, PVC Pipe - Design and Installation.
AWWA M41, Ductile-Iron Pipe and Fittings.
AWWA M45, Fiberglass Pipe Design.
AWWA M55, PE Pipe - Design and Installation. 
American Society of Civil Engineers/Structural Engineering Institute
ASCE 37, Design and Construction of Sanitary and Storm Sewers.
Indiana Administrative Code, Title 327 Water Pollution Control Board
Indiana Administrative Code-327 IAC 3-6-12.
QUALITY ASSURANCE
Regulatory Requirements:
Comply with requirements and recommendations of authorities having jurisdiction over the Work, including. 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) names of authorities having jurisdiction over the work, including utility owners as applicable, owners of rights-of-way, INDOT, county highway department, or city right-of-way department and others.  Add paragraphs as required.
327-IAC , Water Pollution Control Board 
Indiana Department of Environmental Management
(--1--)
Obtain required permits for Work beneath roads, in rights-of-way, beneath railroads, and in other areas of the Work, as required by Authorities Having Jurisdiction listed above. 
NTS:  Edit Article "1.5" to suit the project, in coordination with submittal requirements of the pipe material sections. 
SUBMITTALS
NTS:  Laying schedules are usually not required for piping with non-restrained joints. If a laying schedule is required for project add to section submittal requirements below. Refer to 33 11 00 Water Piping Installation for details. 

NTS:  Only field quality control submittals are listed below.  Coordinate product data, Shop Drawings, and test results, with submittal requirements listed in applicable material specification sections. 
Informational Submittals: Submit the following:
Field Quality Control Submittals: 
Results of each specified field quality control test.
DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDLING
Material delivery, storage and handling must conform to requirements in Contract Documents. Refer to Section 01 65 00 Product Delivery Requirements and Section 01 66 00 Product Storage and Handling Requirements. 
PRODUCTS
MATERIALS
NTS:  If "Piping Schedule" is used, include on Drawings and edit "A" below.       
Piping materials are shown on the Drawings. 
Piping materials shall conform to Specifications for each type of pipe and piping appurtenances in applicable sections of Division 33.
NTS:  Based on project specific requirements include tracing wire for sanitary force mains. Coordinate with the applicable pipe material specification and edit/delete as required.  
BURIED PIPING IDENTIFICATION FOR FORCE MAINS
Tracing Wire Requirements 
Provide - No.10 or stronger High Strength Copper Clad Steel Reinforced with HDPE Insulation tracing wire rated for a minimum tensile strength of 600 lbs. The following materials are acceptable:
Soloshot  Copperhead Industries, LLC
BoreTough, Agave Wire, LTD
Or approved equal 
Splice tracing wire together with the following material:
DRYCONN Direct Bury Lug Aqua
Agave Direct Bury Lug DWTWC-003 
Or approved equal 
Tracer wire shall be required on all sanitary force mains.
All wire utilized for tracing wire shall be designed for and approved by the manufacturer for use in buried low voltage applications and approved by the Engineer.
NTS: Retain one version of paragraph 5 below. Delete the other.
For open trench installation of force main, the tracer wire shall be laid directly over the main and attached to the pipe at regular intervals not to exceed ten (10) feet.  Wire shall be attached to the main with plastic "zip" strapping or wire.
    1. For horizontal directional drilling of force main, the tracer wire shall be pulled in with the main.
At valve structures, the tracing wire shall be drawn toward the surface inside the vault. 
Marking Post Requirements  
The following marking posts, or approved equal, are acceptable for use in connection with sewer force main installation:
Posts:  Flexible Marking Post/Test Station (Glasforms or Carsonite)
Decals:  "Warning Sewer Pipeline" (USA Bluebook) or "Caution Sewer Pipeline" (Glasforms or Carsonite)
The marking post/test station shall be made from a flexible impact resistant composite material.  It shall contain reinforced hollowed ribs on each side where the test wire is protected.  The tracing wire is extended at the bottom; so that it can be spliced to the pipe wire with a direct bury connector.  
EXECUTION
INSTALLATION
General:
Install piping as shown, specified, and as recommended by pipe and fittings manufacturer.
In the event of a conflict between manufacturer's recommendations and the Contract Documents, request interpretation from Engineer before proceeding.
Engineer will observe excavations and bedding prior to Contractor laying pipe.  Notify Engineer in advance of excavating, bedding, pipe laying, and backfilling operations.
Minimum cover over buried piping shall be 4 feet, unless otherwise shown or approved by Engineer.
NTS:  Include the following: "31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork in the Project Manual.
Earthwork is specified in Section 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork.
The width of trenches shall be such as to provide a clearance of not less than 6 inches or not more than 15 inches on each side of the pipe. All pavements shall be cut with an abrasive saw. Concrete driveways, walks, alleys, etc., shall be cut to the nearest joint unless approved by Engineer.
Excavation in excess of that required or shown, and that is not authorized by Engineer shall be filled at Contractor's expense with granular material furnished, placed, and compacted in accordance with Section 31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork.
NTS:  Delete inapplicable paragraphs below.  If separation of sanitary or storm sewers and water mains is required, coordinate Paragraph "C" with requirements of authority having jurisdiction.  Although a water main is not usually installed below a sewer, consider each installation individually to determine what additional protection is required for the water main. 
Separation of Sewers and Potable Water Piping:
Horizontal Separation:
Where possible, proposed sanitary sewers shall be separated from existing potable water mains and service lines horizontally by a clear distance of at least 10 feet, measured edge to edge.
If local conditions preclude the specified clear horizontal separation, installation will be allowed if potable water main is in a separate trench or on an undistributed earth shelf on one side of sewer and with bottom of potable water main at least 18 inches above the crown of the sewer.
Exceptions:
Where it is not possible to provide minimum horizontal separation, construct sewer pipe of pressure pipe complying with public water supply design standards of authority having jurisdiction.  Hydrostatically test newly installed pressure piping to a minimum of 125 psi, meeting the testing requirements in Field Quality Control of this specification.
Sewer in water grade pipe shall extend from manhole to manhole. 
NTS:  Edit Paragraph "2" to comply with local laws and regulations, and standards, if different than specified below. Consider concrete encasement of water main for at least ten feet on each side of the crossing.
Vertical Separation:
Provide minimum vertical distance of 18 inches between outside of potable water main and outside of sewer when sewer crosses above or below potable water main.
Center a section of potable water main pipe at least 17.5 feet long over sewer so that sewer joints are equidistant from potable water main joints.
Provide adequate structural support where potable water main crosses above or below sewer.  At minimum, provide compacted select backfill for 10 feet on each side of crossing.  
This deviation may allow installation of the sewer closer to the water main, provided that the water is in a separate trench or on an undisturbed earth shelf located on one side of the sewer and at horizontal separation of at least ten feet measured edge to edge. 
Exception:
Where it is not possible to provide minimum horizontal separation described above, construct sewer pipe of pressure pipe complying with public water supply design standards of authority having jurisdiction.  Hydrostatically test newly installed pressure piping to a minimum of 125 psi, meeting the testing requirements in Field Quality Control of this specification.
Sewer in water grade pipe shall extend from manhole to manhole. 
Separation of Sewer Mains and Potable Water Structures:
Maintain a 50 feet minimum distance from water supply wells or other water supply sources and structures.  
Plugs (Bulkheads):
Temporarily plug installed pipe at end of each day of Work or other interruption of pipe installation to prevent entry of animals, liquids, persons, and deleterious materials into pipe.
Install standard plugs in bells at dead ends, tees, and crosses.  Cap spigot and plain ends.
Fully secure and block plugs, caps, and bulkheads installed for testing to withstand specified test pressure.
Where plugging is required for phasing of the Work, abandonment of existing utilities, or subsequent connection of piping, install watertight, permanent type plugs, caps, or bulkhead acceptable to Engineer.
NTS:  Coordinate pipe bedding requirements with details on the Drawings.  Type and configuration of bedding required depends on the type of pipe (rigid or flexible) being installed, pipe size, depth and character of soil in the trench, depth of earth cover, and requirements of the pipe manufacturer.  
Edit the following paragraphs to suit the project. trench excavation, bottom preparation, bedding materials, and backfill requirements should be specified in Section 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork.  
Bedding Pipe: Bed pipe as specified and in accordance with details on the Drawings:
NTS:  Include in the Contract Documents:  "31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork" as applicable. Coordinate unit price payment items for additional excavation and granular material with the bid form and edit Paragraph "2" as required.
Trench excavation and backfill, and bedding materials shall conform to the Contract Documents.
Where over excavation is required by Engineer, due to unsuitable soil in trench or excavation subgrade, remove and replace unsuitable material with approved granular material furnished, placed, and compacted in accordance with the Contract Documents.  Payment for removal and replacement of unsuitable soils will be made under the unit price payment items in the Contract Documents.
Bedding installation and materials shall be in accordance with the Drawings and as specified in Section 31 00 05 Trenching and Earthwork.
Excavate trenches below bottom of pipe by amount shown and indicated in the Contract Documents.  Remove loose and unsuitable material from bottom of trench.
Do not bring pipe into position until preceding length of pipe has been bedded and secured in its final position.
Alignment:
Install pipe accurately to line and grade shown and indicated in the Contract Documents, unless otherwise approved by Engineer.  
Slope piping uniformly as shown on the Drawings.
Maintain reference line and grade with laser equipment daily for adjustment and accuracy.  Correct deficiencies in equipment, reference line and reference grade.  Take precautions to prevent deflections in reference line and grade.
Contractor shall install sewer pipe in compliance with slope requirements shown on the Drawings.  All sewer pipes shall have a maximum slope deviation no greater than the indicated percent for the following pipe sizes:
 NTS: Retain only pipe sizes that pertain to the project, delete others.   
   																
                                     Pipe
                                   Diameter
                                  Pipe Slope
                                   Deviation
 8 inch
 +-15%
 10 inch
 +-18%
 12 inch
 +-20%
 15 inch	
 +-20%
 18 inch
 +-20%
 21 inch
 +-20%
 24 inch
 +-20%
       
Contractor shall verify every other section of installed sewer pipe for compliance with design slope.  In the event that the as-built slope exceeds the indicated deviation, notify Engineer in writing.  Removal and replacement of pipe as directed by the Engineer shall be at no additional cost to the Owner.  
NTS:  Edit references in Paragraph "G" below to suit types of pipe included in the project.
Laying Pipe:
Conform to manufacturer's instructions and requirements of standards and manuals listed below, as applicable:
Ductile Iron Pipe: ANSI/AWWA C600, ANSI/AWWA C105, AWWA M41.
Thermoplastic Pipe: ASTM D2321, ASTM D2774, ANSI/AWWA C605, AWWA M23, AWWA M45, AWWA, M55.
Sanitary and Storm Sewers: ASCE 37.
Fiberglass Reinforced Pipe:  ASTM D3262	
Do not lay pipe in water.  Maintain dry trench conditions until jointing and backfilling are complete.  Keep clean and protect interiors of pipe, fittings, valves, and appurtenances.
Start laying pipe at lowest point and proceed towards higher elevations, unless otherwise approved by Engineer.
Place bell and spigot-type pipe so that bells face the direction of laying, unless otherwise approved by Engineer.
Excavate around joints in bedding and lay pipe so that pipe barrel bears uniformly on trench bottom.
For push-on jointed pipe, do not push past the manufacturer's specified home position.
Deflections at joints shall not exceed 50 percent of amount allowed by pipe manufacturer, unless otherwise approved by Engineer.
Carefully examine pipe, fittings, and specials for cracks, damage, and other defects while suspended above trench before installation.  Immediately remove defective materials from the Site and replace with acceptable products.
Inspect interior of all pipe, fittings, and specials and completely remove all dirt, gravel, sand, debris, and other foreign material from pipe interior and joint recesses before pipe and appurtenances are moved into excavation.  Bell and spigot-type mating surfaces shall be clean and dry immediately before pipe is laid.
Field cut pipe, where required, with machine specially designed for cutting the type of pipe being installed.  Make cuts carefully, without damage to pipe, coating or lining, and with smooth end at right angles to axis of pipe.  Cut ends on push-on joint type pipe shall be tapered, and sharp edges shall be filed off smooth.  Do not flame-cut pipe.
Do not place blocking under pipe, unless specifically approved by Engineer for special conditions.
Touch up protective coatings in manner satisfactory to Engineer prior to backfilling.
Notify Engineer in advance of backfilling operations.
On steep slopes, take measures acceptable to Engineer to prevent movement of pipe during installation.
Exercise care to avoid flotation when installing pipe in cast-in-place concrete, and in locations with high groundwater.
NTS:  Retain applicable joint requirements below, add others as required, and delete joint requirements for materials not used on project. If additional pressure grade joints are required refer to 33 11 00 Water Piping Installation. 
Jointing Pipe:
NTS:  For thermoplastic pipe in Paragraph "1", below, bell and spigot joints are typically used on sewers.  Solvent cement welded joints are typically used on other services, such as buried chemical lines.  Add specifications for solvent cement welded joints if required for project.
Thermoplastic Pipe Joints:
Bell and Spigot Joints:
Bevel pipe ends, remove all burrs, and provide a reference mark at correct distance from pipe end before making joints.
Clean spigot end and bell thoroughly before making the joint.  Insert O-ring gasket while ensuring that gasket is properly oriented.  Lubricate spigot with manufacturer's recommended lubricant.  Do not lubricate bell and O-ring.  Insert spigot end of pipe carefully into bell until reference mark on spigot is flush with bell.
Mechanical Coupling Joints:
Mechanical couplings include: sleeve-type flexible couplings, split flexible couplings, ANSI/AWWA C606 grooved or shouldered end couplings, plasticized PVC couplings, and other mechanical couplings specified. 
Prior to installing and assembling mechanical couplings, thoroughly clean joint ends with wire brush to remove foreign matter.  
For mechanical couplings that incorporate gaskets, after cleaning apply manufacture's recommended lubricant to rubber gasket or inside of coupling housing and to joint ends.  After lubrication, install gasket around joint end of previously installed piece and mate joint end of subsequent piece to installed piece.  Position gasket and place coupling housing around gasket and over grooved or shouldered joint ends.  Insert bolts and install nuts tightly by hand.  Tighten bolts uniformly to produce an equal pressure on all parts of housing.  When housing clamps meet metal to metal, joint is complete and further tightening is not required.
For plasticized PVC couplings, loosen the stainless steel clamping bands and remove clamps from coupling.  Slide coupling over plain ends of pipes to be joined without using manufacture's recommended lubricants.  Place clamps over each end of coupling at grooved section and tighten with torque wrench to torque recommended by manufacturer.
HDPE Pipe Joints:
Bell and Spigot Joints:
Remove all burrs and provide reference mark at correct distance from pipe end.  Place mark such that no more than (1/2) inch of machined spigot surface will be visible outside of bell after pipe has been joined. 
Clean spigot end and bell thoroughly with soap and water before positioning gasket. 
Lubricate spigot groove with manufacturer's recommended lubricant.  Thoroughly clean gasket and place in spigot groove starting at bottom, ensuring that gasket fins face backwards toward pipe. 
Thoroughly lubricate gasket with pipe manufacturer's recommended lubricant and equalize stretch in gasket by means of manufacturer's recommended procedure.  Reposition gasket in groove after stretching.
Thoroughly clean and lubricate receiving bell.  Align pipe as straight as possible and insert spigot end of pipe carefully into bell until reference mark on spigot is flush with bell.
If mechanical means are used to insert spigot end, protect the end of pipe being pushed with wood, to provide even distribution of pressure. 
Butt Fusion Welded Joints:
Install joints in accordance with manufacturer's instructions using hydraulic butt fusion machine or manual machine equipped with torque wrench.  Equipment shall be able to achieve and maintain heating tool temperature range of 400 to 450 degrees F and an interface pressure of 60 to 90 psi. 
Clean interior and exterior of pipe and fitting ends with clean, dry, lint-free cloth.
Align ends to be joined in the fusion machine without forcing ends into alignment.  Adjust alignment as necessary and tighten clamps to prevent slippage. 
Place facing tool between ends to be joined and face them to provide clean, smooth, parallel mating surface.  If stops are present, face ends down to the stops.  Remove all shavings after facing without touching ends.
Re-check alignment of ends and check for slippage against fusion pressure.  There shall be no detectable gaps between ends.  Align outside diameters. 
Heating tool shall maintain pipe manufacturer's recommended temperature range.  Place the tool between ends to be joined.  Move ends against heating tool to achieve full contact.  Hold ends against heating tool without force until melt bead size is formed per manufacturer's recommendations.
Upon forming proper melt bead size, quickly separate ends and remove heating tool.  Quickly inspect melted ends and bring ends together applying joining force recommended by manufacturer, using 60 to 90 psi interfacial pressure to form double bead rolled over surface of pipe on both ends.
Hold joining force against ends until joint is cool to the touch.  Cooling period shall be 30 to 90 seconds per inch of pipe diameter.  Heavier wall thicknesses may require longer cooling times as recommended by pipe manufacturer. 
Upon completing joint, inspect to verify double bead has been formed on both sides, uniformly rounded and consistent in size all around joint.  Remove faulty joints and re-joint. 
Ductile Iron Push-On Joint Pipe:
Prior to assembling joints, thoroughly clean with wire brush the last eight inches of exterior surface of spigot and interior surface of bell, except where joints are lined or coated with a protective lining or coating.
Wipe clean rubber gaskets and flex gaskets until resilient.  Conform to manufacturer's instructions for procedures to ensure gasket resiliency when assembling joints in cold weather. 
Insert gasket into joint recess and smooth out entire circumference of gasket to remove bulges and to prevent interference with proper entry of spigot of entering pipe.
Immediately prior to joint assembly, apply thin film of pipe manufacturer's recommended lubricant to surface of gasket that will come in contact with entering spigot end of pipe, or apply a thin film of lubricant to outside of spigot of entering pipe.
For assembly, center spigot in pipe bell and push pipe forward until spigot just makes contact with rubber gasket.  After gasket is compressed and before pipe is pushed or pulled in the rest of the way, carefully check gasket for proper position around the full circumference of joint.  Final assembly shall be made by forcing spigot end of entering pipe past gasket until spigot makes contact with base of the bell.  When more than a reasonable amount of force is required to assemble the joint, remove spigot end of pipe to verify proper positioning of gasket.  Do not use gaskets that have been scored or otherwise damaged.
Maintain an adequate supply of gaskets and manufacture's recommended joint lubricant at the Site when pipe jointing operations are in progress.
Fiberglass Reinforced Pipe Joints:
All joints must be in conformance with recommendations of manufacturers of pipe and joint material
All joint surfaces shall be lubricated with manufacture's recommended lubrication immediately before the joint is completed.  Each spigot end shall be suitably beveled to facilitate assembly.
Use suitable equipment and end protection to push or pull the pipes together.
Do not exceed forces recommended by the manufacturer for coupling pipe.
Provide watertight joints.
Hand fill and compact all bell depressions with granular bedding materials to prevent joints from sagging or moving.
Joints at tie-ins, when needed, may utilize fiberglass or stainless steel, gasket-sealed closure couplings.  The coupling must be approved by the 	pipe manufacturer.
Certa- Lok PVC Joints: 
Unless otherwise specified, pipe shall be assembled in the field. The Contractor shall follow the pipe supplier's written guidelines for this procedure. 
The pipe shall be joined using a separate PVC coupling with beveled edges, built-in sealing gaskets and restraining grooves.  The restraining splines shall be square or rectangular, and made from Nylon 101. 
Exposed splines shall be cut flush to coupling to reduce soil drag.
Couplings shall be beveled on leading edges to minimize soil friction.
Provide elastomeric gaskets complying with ASTM F477 and ASTM D3139.
Restrained Joints: Provide restrained joints where shown or indicated.
           
Fusible PVC Joints 
Fusible polyvinylchloride pipe will be handled in a safe and non-destructive manner before, during, and after the fusion process and in accordance with this specification and pipe supplier's guidelines.
Fusible polyvinylchloride pipe will be fused by qualified fusion technicians, as documented by the pipe supplier.    
Each fusion joint shall be recorded and logged by an electronic monitoring device (data logger) connected to the fusion machine.  
Only appropriately sized and outfitted fusion machines that have been approved by the pipe supplier shall be used for the fusion process.  Fusion machines must incorporate the following elements:
Heat Plate - Heat plates shall be in good condition with no deep gouges or scratches.  Plates shall be clean and free of any debris or contamination.  Heater controls shall function properly; cord and plug shall be in good condition.  The appropriately sized heat plate shall be capable of maintaining a uniform and consistent heat profile and temperature for the size of pipe being fused, per the pipe supplier's guidelines.
Carriage  -  Carriage shall travel smoothly with no binding at less than 50 psi.  Jaws shall be in good condition with proper inserts for the pipe size being fused.  Insert pins shall be installed with no interference to carriage travel.
General Machine - Overview of machine body shall yield no obvious defects, missing parts, or potential safety issues during fusion.
Data Logging Device  -  An approved datalogging device with the current version of the pipe supplier's recommended and compatible software shall be used.  Datalogging device operations and maintenance manual shall be with the unit at all times.  If fusing for extended periods of time, an independent 110V power source shall be available to extend battery life.
Other equipment specifically required for the fusion process shall include the following:
Pipe rollers shall be used for support of pipe to either side of the machine
A weather protection canopy that allows full machine motion of the heat plate, fusion assembly and carriage shall be provided for fusion in inclement, extreme temperatures, and /or windy weather, per the pipe supplier's recommendations.
An infrared (IR) pyrometer for checking pipe and heat plate temperatures.
Fusion machine operations and maintenance manual shall be kept with the fusion machine at all times.
Facing blades specifically designed for cutting fusible polyvinylchloride pipe shall be used.
Backfilling:
Conform to applicable requirements of the Contract Documents.  Refer to Section 31 00 05, Trenching and Earthwork.
Place backfill as Work progresses.  Backfill by hand and use power tampers until pipe is covered with at least one foot of backfill.
Transitions from One Type of Pipe to Another:
NTS:  There are a limited number of special fittings available to connect cast iron and ductile iron pipe to other pipe of the same nominal size, but with different outside diameters.  This condition occurs when connecting ductile iron pipe produced to current standards to older cast iron pipe produced under discontinued standards such as ANSI A21.1 (pit cast pipe) and ANSI A21.6 or A21.8 (Class C-D outside diameter).  While some (not all) manufacturers supply special sleeves modified to accept the larger outside diameters of older pipe, available nominal sizes and/or pressure ratings are limited.  For additional information, refer to ANSI/AWWA A21.10/C110, Appendix B, dual purpose modified MJ sleeve. Reducing couplings manufactured by Dresser and Smith Blair may also be used.
Provide necessary adapters, specials, and connection pieces required when connecting different types and sizes of pipe or connecting pipe made by different manufacturers.
Closures:
Provide closure pieces shown or required to complete the Work.
NTS:  Service connections must be in accordance with City Utilities standard details for building sewer connection.  Specifier shall review and include on Drawings City Standard Details SAN-1 thru SAN-7 as applicable.
Service Connections:
Provide service connections in accordance with the requirements of the Contract Drawings. 
The trench shall be fully backfilled in accordance with this specification and the Contract Drawings.
Prior to backfilling the service pipe, every building service shall be inspected by a representative of the Engineer. A minimum of 3 hours advanced notice shall be given to the New Water/Sewer Permit Department of the City of Fort Wayne, for completing the inspection. The hours of operation for sewer tap inspections are from 8:00 am to 3:00 pm, 5 days a week, excluding holidays. 
Concrete Cradle and Encasement:
Where subgrade conditions, in the opinion of the Engineer, warrant extra precautions for the bedding or encasement of pipe, the Engineer may order the construction of a concrete cradle and/or encasement to be installed in conformance with the size and dimensions indicated on the plans. All concrete used in the concrete cradle shall be in accordance with Section 03 00 05, Concrete.
NTS:  Based on project specific requirements include tracing wire for sanitary force mains. Coordinate with the applicable pipe material specification and edit/delete as required.
BURIED PIPING IDENTIFICATION INSTALLATION  -  FOR FORCE MAINS
Mainline Tracing Wire 
Tracing wire is required on all force mains. 
Tracing wire shall be laid directly over the water main and attached to the pipe at regular intervals not to exceed 10 feet.
Attach the tracer wire to the pipe using plastic "zip" strapping or metal wire. 
The following technique shall be used to splice wires together: 
Use DryConn Direct Bury Lug and strip the wire to 5/8". 
Place one stripped conductor into the lug. 
Tighten the set screw till it comes in contact with the solid conductor. 
Note the location of screwdriver and continue fighting the set screw (3/4) turn for # 10 solid copper wire. 
Repeat the steps for the adjacent side. 
Remove sealant cover and discard. Close housing, aligning conductors until housing lid is fully latched.    
For valves in valve boxes, the wire shall be brought up the outside of the valve or curb box riser. Construct an opening in the lip of the valve box to allow the top of the tracer wire to be stored inside the valve box. Ensure that the opening is sized adequate so the cover will fit snug onto the valve box, once the tracer wire is installed. The wire should be installed with an excess length of 4-6 inches that is to be folded down in the valve box. 
Successful completion of conductivity test to be completed by the Contractor and in the presence of the Engineer.  Successful completion of the test will be required prior to acceptance of force mains. 
Marking Post Requirements 
Marking post will be required for all bores or as directed by Engineer. 
Marking post shall be buried at least 12 inches.
The wire shall be brought up inside the marking post and attached at the top with 2 holes drilled in the marking posts so that the wire can be wrapped around an inserted eyebolt, or the wire can be feed through the hole and left extended on the exterior of the post. 
THRUST RESTRAINT
Provide thrust restraint on pressure piping systems where shown or indicated in the Contract Documents.
Thrust restraint may be accomplished by using restrained pipe joints, or harnessing buried pipe.  Thrust restraints shall be designed for axial thrust exerted by test pressure specified on Contract Drawings.
NTS:   Edit Paragraphs "C" to suit the project.  The designer usually specifies Thrust Restraint Method.  If harnessed lengths of buried pipe are required for restraint, designer shall indicate the required lengths on the Drawings.  Methods for determining the required harnessed lengths based on pipe layout and soil conditions are in AWWA manuals listed in this section as Reference Standards.
Restrained Pipe Joints:
Pipe joints shall be restrained by means suitable for the type of pipe being installed.
Ductile Iron, Push-on Joints and Mechanical Joints: Restrain with proprietary restrained joint system, lugs and tie rods; or other joint restraint systems approved by Engineer.
Thermoplastic and HDPE Joints: Where bell and spigot-type or other non-restrained joints are utilized, provide tie rods across joint or other suitable joint restraint system, subject to the approval of Engineer.
Joints for Concrete Pipe Other than Prestressed Concrete Cylinder Pipe: Restrain joints utilizing clamp type restrained joint or snap ring-type restrained joint.
NTS:  Delete Article "3.4" if not applicable, or edit to suit the project.
WORK AFFECTING EXISTING PIPING
Location of Existing Underground Facilities:
Locations of existing underground facilities shown on the Drawings should be considered approximate.
Determine the true location of existing underground facilities to which connections are to be made, crossed, and that could be disturbed, and determine location of underground facilities that could be disturbed prior to beginning of excavation and backfilling operations, or that may be affected by the Work.
NTS:  Delete Paragraphs "B" and "C", below, if not applicable.
Taking Existing Pipelines and Underground Facilities Out of Service:
Do not take pipelines or underground facilities out of service unless specifically listed in the Contract Documents, or approved by Engineer.
Notify Engineer in writing prior to taking pipeline or underground facilities out of service.  Shutdown notification shall be provided in advance of the shutdown in accordance with the Contract Documents.
Work on Existing Pipelines or Underground Facilities:
Cut or tap piping or underground facilities as shown or required with machines specifically designed for cutting or tapping pipelines or underground facilities, as applicable.
Install temporary plugs to prevent entry of mud, dirt, water, and debris into pipe.
Provide necessary adapters, sleeves, fittings, pipe, and appurtenances required to complete the Work.
FIELD QUALITY CONTROL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Edit requirements below to suit the project.  If a piping schedule is used, replace "by the Engineer or Owner's representative in writing." with "in the Piping Schedule".
General:
Test all piping, except as exempted by the Engineer or Owner's representative in writing.
When authorities having jurisdiction are to witness tests, notify Engineer and authorities having jurisdiction in writing at least 48 hours in advance of testing.
Conduct all tests in presence of Engineer or Owner's representative.
Remove or protect pipeline-mounted devices that could be damaged by testing.
Provide all apparatus and services required for testing, including:
Test pumps, compressors, hoses, calibrated gauges, meters, test containers, valves, fittings, and temporary pumping systems required to maintain Owner's operations.
Temporary bulkheads, bracing, blocking, and thrust restraints.
Provide air if an air test is required, power if pumping is required, and gases if gases are required.  
Repair observed leaks and repair pipe that fails to meet acceptance criteria.  Retest after repair.
Unless otherwise specified, testing shall include existing piping systems that connect with new piping system.  Test existing pipe to nearest structure.  Piping not installed by Contractor and that fails the test shall be repaired upon authorization of Owner.  Unless otherwise included in the Work, repair of existing piping or underground facilities will be paid as extra Work.
NTS:  Edit Section "B" below if a Test Schedule and/or Piping Schedule is provided on the Drawings.  Indicate required test procedures and pressures, or where they are to be found (Drawings)
Test Schedule:
Unless otherwise specified, required test pressures are at lowest elevation of pipeline segment being tested.
For piping not listed in Piping Schedule:
Hydrostatically test pipe that will convey liquid at a pressure greater than five psig.  
Use exfiltration testing, low-pressure air testing, or vacuum testing for other piping.
Test Pressure:
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the appropriate test pressure.
 (--1--)
If test pressure is not listed in Piping Schedule, or if test is required for piping not listed in the Piping Schedule, test pressure will be determined by Engineer based on maximum anticipated sustained operating pressure and methods described in applicable ANSI/AWWA manual or standard that applies to the piping system.
NTS:   Delete tests not required for the project.  Delete references to types of pipe not included in the project. Hydrostatic testing is required on pressurized pipe, including sanitary force mains and when vertical/horizontal separation is not met. Edit the test pressure based on the maximum anticipated sustained operating pressure.  
Hydrostatic Testing:
Preparation for Testing:
For PVC pressure pipe follow procedures described in Section 7 of AWWA C605.
PVC pipe test pressure and duration: 150 psi for 2 hours 
For HDPE pipe, follow procedures described in ASTM F2164.  If re-testing of a test section or pipeline is required, at least 8 hours shall elapse between tests. 
HDPE pipe test pressure and duration: 150 psi for 4-hour expansion; 140psi for 1-hour test
For Ductile Iron pipe, follow procedures described in AWWA M41. 
Ductile Iron pipe test pressure and duration: 150 psi for 2 hours
Prior to testing, ensure that adequate thrust protection is in place and joints are properly installed.
Prior to testing the Contractor shall ensure that the line is clean and free of dirt and debris.
NTS:   Insert at (--1--) special requirements, such as a need to limit lengths of test sections, that may be based on the capacity of the testing equipment.  If not required, delete Paragraph "f".  
(--1--).
Test Procedure for DIP and PVC pressure pipe:
Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge pressures.  Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length per second in pipe being tested.
Expel air from pipe as required.  Obtain approval of Engineer prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.
Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to eliminate visible leakage.
Add fluid as required to pressurize line to required test pressure. Maintain test pressure for a stabilization period of ten minutes before beginning test.
Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been filled, exposed to required wetting period, air has been expelled, and pressure stabilized.
Timed Test Period: After stabilization period, maintain test pressure for at least two hours.  During timed testing period, add fluid as required to maintain pressure within five psig of required test pressure.  
Pump from test container to maintain test pressure.  Measure volume of water pumped from test container and record on test report.  Record pressure at test pump at 15 minute intervals for duration of test.
Test Procedure for HDPE Pressure Pipe:
Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length per second in pipe being tested.
Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval from Engineer prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.
Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to eliminate visible leakage.
After filling pipeline, gradually pressurize pipe to test pressure and maintain required test pressure for four hours for pipe to expand. During expansion, add fluid to maintain required test pressure. Begin timed test period after expansion period and other requirements are met.
Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been filled, exposed to required wetting period, air has been expelled, and pressure stabilized.
Timed Test Period: After four-hour expansion phase, reduce test pressure by ten psig and do not add liquid.  Test pressure shall then remain steady for one hour, indicating no leakage.
If no visible leakage is observed and pressure remains within 5% of the original test pressure for one hour, a passing test is indicated.
Makeup Water Allowances:
The allowable makeup water allowance is the maximum amount of water that is added into a pipeline undergoing hydrostatic pressure testing. The allowable leakage rates for the various pipe materials and joints are listed below.
NTS:  Add paragraphs if required to provide allowable leakage rates for piping systems included in the project that are not listed below. 
No Makeup Water: Pipe with flanged, welded, fused, threaded, soldered, or brazed joints.
NTS:  ANSI/AWWA Manual M41 is for ductile iron pipe.  Its leakage rate allowance is applied to ductile iron pipe and the pipe materials specified in Paragraph "c".
Rates based on formula or table in AWWA M41:
DIP and PVC pipes joined with rubber gaskets as sealing members, including the following joint types:
Bell and spigot and push-on joints.
Mechanical joints.
Bolted sleeve type couplings.
Grooved and shouldered couplings.
Allowable leakage per 1,000 feet of pipeline at 150 psi test pressure:
            
                                   Size (in)
                                 Leakage (gph)
                                       
                                   Size (in)
                                 Leakage (gph)
                                       4
                                     0.33

                                      24
                                     1.99
                                       6
                                     0.50

                                      30
                                     2.48
                                       8
                                     0.66

                                      36
                                     2.98
                                      10
                                     0.83

                                      42
                                     3.17
                                      12
                                     0.99

                                      48
                                     3.48
                                      16
                                     1.32

                                      54
                                     4.47
                                      20
                                     1.66
                                       
                                      60
                                     4.97
Makeup Water Allowances for Concrete Pressure Pipe shall conform to AWWA M9.
NTS:  Low pressure air testing is used to test joints for DIP, PVC, and HDPE pipes and is intended for diameters less than or equal to 36". Any larger diameter makes increases the force on the pipe plugs and creates an unsafe testing situation. Delete testing if not used for project.  
Sewer Testing with Low Pressure Air:
Plug and bulkhead ends of pipe segment to be tested.
One plug shall have an orifice through which to pass air and a second orifice shall be continuously connected to a pressure gauge having a range from 0 to 10 psi, minimum divisions of 0.10 psi, and accuracy of plus or minus 0.04 psi.
The air supply line shall have a positive on-off valve and suitable means for readily disconnecting from the control panel.
The section of pipe shall be pressurized to approximately 4 psi.
The air shall be shut off and allowed to stabilize for a minimum of 2 min.  If during this time the pressure drops below 3.5 psi, more air shall be added to raise pressure to a minimum of 3.5 psi.
After the air has stabilized, the air line shall be disconnected and testing will begin.
The time of test, in minutes, will be equivalent to one-half of the nominal diameter of the pipe being tested.
The maximum allowable pressure drop during the specified time period will be 1.0 psi.
NTS:  Vacuum testing can be done on the pipe alone, manhole alone, or a combination of pipe and manhole.  Edit to suit the project.
Vacuum Testing:
Pipe Segments
Plug and bulkhead ends and lateral connections of pipe segment to be tested.
Following set-up of test apparatus, draw vacuum of ten inches of     mercury on pipe segment being tested.  
Brace all plugs to prevent the plug or pipe from being dislodged and drawn into a manhole, when vacuum testing. 
Start test upon reaching specified test vacuum.  Test duration shall be 15 minutes.
Record vacuum drop at end of test.  If vacuum drop is greater than one inch of mercury, pipe segment or manhole fails the test and shall be repaired and retested.  If vacuum drop is less than one inch of mercury, pipe segment or manhole passes the test.
Manholes 
Temporarily plug pipe connections entering manhole to be tested.
All pipes entering the manhole shall be temporarily plugged, taking care to securely brace the pipes and plugs to prevent them from being drawn into the manhole. 
Following set-up of test apparatus, draw vacuum of ten inches of mercury on manhole being tested. The time shall be measured for the vacuum to drop nine inches mercury. 
Start test upon reaching specified test vacuum.  Test duration shall be in accordance with ASTM C1244.
Minimum test times for various manhole diameters shall conform to the following table per ASTM C1244 or be 1 minute; whichever is longer: 
     
 Depth (ft)
                                 Diameter, in.
                                       
 48
 54
                                       60
 66
 72
 78
 84
 90
 96
 102
 108
 114
120
                               Time, in seconds
                                     <4

                                        6

                                        8
         60
                                       10

 63
 67
 71
                                       12

 62
 67
 71
 76
 81
 85
                                       14

 62
 67
 72
 78
 83
 89
 94
100
                                       16


 69
 70
 76
 83
 89
 95
 101
 108
114
                                       18

 65
 73
 79
 86
 93
 100
 107
 114
 121
128
                                       20

                                      65
 72
 81
 88
 95
 103
 111
 119
 126
 135
142
                                       22

 64
                                       72
 79
 89
 97
 105
 114
 122
 131
 139
 148
156
                                       24

 64
                                       78
 87
 97
 106
 114
 124
 133
 143
 152
 161
170
                                       26
 64
 75
                                       85
 94
 105
 114
 124
 134
 144
 155
 164
 175
185
                                       28
 69
 81
                                       91
 101
 113
 123
 133
 145
 155
 167
 177
 188
199
                                       30
 74
 87
                                       98
 108
 121
 132
 143
 155
 166
 178
 189
 202
213
   Note: Table per ASTM C1244
Record vacuum drop at end of test.  If vacuum drop is greater than one inch of mercury, pipe segment or manhole fails the test and shall be repaired and retested.  If vacuum drop is less than 1 inch of mercury, manhole passes the test.
NTS:  Retain Paragraph "F" for flexible pipe, to check whether bedding around pipe has been properly installed and whether pipe has deformed out of round.  Edit paragraph "F" below if laser pipe profiling is to be allowed on large diameter installations (pipe 36" and larger).
Vertical Deflection Test for Flexible Pipe:
Conduct vertical deflection test at least thirty days after backfill has been placed.
Use rigid ball or mandrel for deflection test, which shall have diameter of at least 95 percent of base inside diameter or average inside diameter of piping, depending on which is specified in applicable ASTM standard, including appendix, to which pipe is manufactured.  
Perform test without mechanical pulling devices.  
Re-install and retest pipe segments that exceed deflection of 5 percent.
NTS:  Retain Paragraph "G" when required, otherwise delete. Requiring televising increases the cost of the project.  Televised inspections create a baseline assessment for new pipe and can catch obstructions or construction debris that other tests may miss.  Insert at (--1--) the lines to be televised.
Televised Inspection:
Televise the following: (--1--).
Televise completed sewer and appurtenant structures, including manholes and chambers, and provide to Engineer copy of video on digital video disc (DVD).  Repair apparent leaks and re-televise the pipe until acceptance by Engineer.
Inspection shall be performed by Subcontractor certified in Pipeline Assessment Certification Program (PACP) by National Association of Sewer Service Companies (NASSCO).  Provide copy of PACP certification prior to starting inspection.  Televising shall conform to coding and reporting standards and guidelines specified in PACP.  Identify report annotations, pipe conditions, and pipe defects in accordance with PACP.  Severity ratings shall be calculated in accordance with PACP.  
Camera for main line shall be pan-and-tilt, radial viewing, pipe inspection camera that pans plus-or-minus 275 degrees and rotates 360 degrees.  Use camera with an accurate footage counter that displays on television monitor exact distance of camera from centerline of starting manhole.   Use camera with height adjustment so that lens is always centered at one-half inside diameter or higher, in pipe being televised.  Provide lighting system that allows features and condition of pipe to be clearly seen.  Camera shall operate in 100 percent humidity.  Camera, television monitor, and other components of video system produce a minimum 450-line resolution colored video picture.  Picture quality and definition shall be satisfactory to Engineer.  Camera for lateral televising shall be fixed and capable of moving from main line 80 feet up lateral, and conform in other respects to requirements for main line camera.
Repair apparent leaks in pipe Work in manner satisfactory to Engineer without additional cost to Owner and re-televise the pipe.
CLEANING 
NTS:  Edit Paragraph "A" to suit the project, and delete inapplicable requirements.
Cleaning, General: Clean pipe systems as follows:
Thoroughly clean all piping, in manner approved by Engineer, prior to placing in service.  
+ + END OF SECTION + +

 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 1/5/15
SECTION 33 12 00
Water Appurtenances
NTS:  This section includes appurtenances commonly used for water service, such as valves, fire hydrants, restraint devices, curb stops and corporation stops. 
Edit this section to suit project requirements and coordinate edits with related sections. 
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals as shown, specified, and required to furnish, install, and test water appurtenances for water service Coordination:
Coordination: 
Review installation procedures for this and other specification sections and coordinate Work that must be installed with or before Work under this Section.
Related Sections:
NTS:  List below only sections covering products, construction and equipment that a user might expect to find in this section, but are specified elsewhere.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections. Insert at (--1--) any additional section references. 
Section 33 05 33, Ductile Iron Pressure Utility Piping.
Section 33 05 23.13 Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.  
(--1--)
NTS:  Section "1.2" is to be included if project is Bid on unit price basis. Section to be deleted or revised if project is to be bid on lump sum basis.
       
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
Measurement and payment for piping and associated appurtenances shall be included in the measurement and payment of each pipe material, except for the specific Work Items listed separately below and in other specification sections.
Water Service Replacement Short Side
Work Item Number and Title
		33 12 00-A Water Service Replacement Short Side
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual 	number successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
Payment for replacement water services shall be based on the 	contract unit price.  Payment for any associated roadway, driveway, or 	sidewalk replacement/restoration shall be paid for under their respective Bid items.  Payment for any associated mulched seeding shall be paid for under 	its respective Bid item.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of "Short" or near side water services from the proposed water main to the proposed curb box.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, furnishing and placement of Type "K" copper or HDPE tubing, corporation stop, curb box, curb stop and Vadle, adjustment of the curb box, tie-over and reconnection of existing services, removal and disposal of existing curb stop and box, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, backfilling (#53/73 stone under pavement), coordinating and cooperating with Water Maintenance and Service throughout the pressure testing and disinfection process, protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified.  
Water Service Replacement  - Long Side
Work Item Number and Title
		33 12 00-B Water Service Replacement Long Side
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual number successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
Payment for replacement water services shall be based on the contract unit price.  Payment for any associated roadway, driveway, or sidewalk replacement/restoration shall be paid for under their respective Bid items.  Payment for any associated mulched seeding shall be paid for under its respective Bid item.    
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of "long" or water services that cross the street from the proposed water main to the proposed curb box.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, furnishing and placement of Type "K" copper or HDPE tubing (installed by trenchless method), corporation stop, curb box, curb stop and Vadle, adjustment of the curb box, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, tie-over and reconnection of existing services, removal and disposal of existing curb stop and box, backfilling (#53/73 stone under pavement), coordinating and cooperating with Water Maintenance and Service throughout the pressure testing and disinfection process, protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified. 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the project specific water service size. This Work item is used for service connections that are 2-inches and larger. Which are typically non-residential facilities such as; Churches, business schools factories. Delete if not applicable.   
(--1--)Water Service
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-C (--1--) Water Service 
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual number successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
Payment for reconnection water services shall be based on the contract unit price.  Payment for any associated roadway, driveway, or sidewalk replacement/restoration shall be paid for under their respective Bid items.  Payment for any associated mulched seeding shall be paid for under its respective Bid item.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of the water service from the proposed water main to the proposed connection point.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, furnishing and placement of  tee, restraint for all joints, valve and box, adjustment of the valve box, all fittings and couplings necessary, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, tie-over and reconnection to existing services, removal and disposal of existing valve box, coordinating and cooperating with Water Maintenance and Service throughout the pressure testing and disinfection process, protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified.  All excavations made for service Work need to be backfilled with #53/#73 Special backfill.  
       
NTS:  There are seven fire hydrant assembly details, used for various installations. Add in the hydrant assembly type at (--1--) and verify that all the related Work items are included below. Add an additional Work item numbers for each different assembly type used on project. 
Fire Hydrant Assemblies
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-D Fire Hydrant Assembly-Type (--1--) 
The number of fire hydrant assemblies to be measured for payment shall be the actual number installed along a water main that is successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
The payment for this item shall be based on the contract unit price.  Pressure testing and disinfection shall be included under the items for the water main unless otherwise broken down by the Engineer as a separate Bid item.
These items shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment, both permanent and temporary, to install and maintain complete the fire hydrant assemblies as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work includes, but is not limited to:  clearing and grubbing, tree trimming, removing and returning or replacing trees not specified in the Contract Documents, pavement, curb, curb walk, sidewalk, and drive approach removal and disposal, trench excavation, disposal of excavated material, dewatering, required couplings and specials, bedding, temporary surface, testing of materials, compaction of bedding, temporary sheeting, shoring and bracing, restoration of all disturbed items not included under other Bid items, protection of existing utilities and structures, protection of trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, repair of utility service laterals if disturbed, erosion control measures, the main connection, connection piping, fittings, , hydrant, 0.5 cubic yard stone drainage pit at the base of the hydrant, anchorage, gate valve, valve box and extensions, restrained joints, adjustment of valve boxes and the "Not in Service" tagging as necessary and specified.  Select and granular backfill shall be included under these items.
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of thei Section. 
This Item shall also include polyethylene encasement of hydrant leads. 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the project specific gate valve size. Add in additional Work items for multiple gate valve sizes. Delete if not applicable.   
Resilient Seat Wedge Gate Valve and Boxes
Work Item Number and Title
     	33 12 00-E (--1--) Resilient Seat Gate Valve and Box		
The number of gate valves and boxes to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of gate valves and valve boxes installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price.  Payment of select and granular backfill will be under the items for select and granular backfill.  Payment for excavation, disposal of excavated materials, bedding, restoration, and pressure testing and disinfection shall be included under the Bid items for the water main unless otherwise broken down by the Engineer as separate Bid items.
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the gate valves and valve boxes as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: gate valves and valve boxes (extensions as necessary),  adjustment of the valve boxes, and any necessary joint restraining required to overcome the thrust imposed by the respective items. 
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of this Section. 
This item shall also include polyethylene encasement of gate valves. 
       
NTS:  Butterfly valves are typically used on waterlines larger than 20-inches, if smaller diameters the Resilient Seat Wedge valve is used. As diameters of resilient seat wedge valve become large they require many turns to open and close them. Insert at (--1--) below the project specific valve size. Add in additional Work items for multiple gate valve sizes. Delete if not applicable. Coordinate with sections 2.3 and 2.4.    
Butterfly Valve and Boxes
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-F (--1--) Butterfly Valve and Box		
The number of gate valves and boxes to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of butterfly valves and valve boxes installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price.  Payment of select and granular backfill will be under the items for select and granular backfill.  Payment for excavation, disposal of excavated materials, bedding, restoration, and pressure testing and disinfection shall be included under the Bid items for the water main unless otherwise broken down by the Engineer as separate Bid items.
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the butterfly valves and valve boxes as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: butterfly valves and valve boxes (extensions as necessary), adjustment of the valve boxes, and any necessary joint restraining required to overcome the thrust imposed by the respective items.
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of this Section. 
This item shall also include polyethylene encasement of butterfly valves. 
       
Air Release Structure 
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-G Air Release Structure
The number of air release structures to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of structures and valves installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price per each structure installed.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the air release structures and all equipment within as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: structure bedding and backfill, excavation, precast concrete manhole structure, manhole casting and lid, pavement removal and disposal if necessary, disposal of excess excavated material, base stabilization, dewatering, sheeting, riser rings,  temporary pavement replacement if necessary, air release valve, shut off valve, mechanical joint tee, and testing. 
       
REFERENCES
NTS:  Retain applicable standards and add others as required.
Standards referenced in this Section are:
AWWA C502, Dry-Barrel Fire Hydrants. 
AWWA C504, Rubber-Seated Butterfly Valves.
AWWA	C508, Swing-Check Valves for Waterworks Service, 2-inch through 24-inch NPS.
AWWA C509, Resilient-Seated Gate Valves for Water Supply Service.
AWWA C550, Protective Interior Coatings for Valves and Hydrants.
ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5, Standard for Polyethylene Encasement for Ductile-Iron Pipe Systems.
QUALITY ASSURANCE
NTS:  Edit or delete Paragraph "A" if project requirements prohibit an experience clause.
Manufacturer's Qualifications:
Manufacturer shall be able to provide documentation of at least five installations of substantially similar products to that specified, in satisfactory service for at least five years.
Component Supply and Compatibility:
Specified appurtenances of each type shall be furnished by a single manufacturer.
Regulatory Requirements:
NTS:  Some states require valves in contact with potable water or water that will be treated to become potable be certified as suitable for contact with drinking water by an accredited organization per ANSI/NSF 61 requirements.  Verify local requirements and delete or edit Paragraph "1" to suit the project.
Drinking Water Requirements: Valves that will be in contact with potable water or water that will be treated to become potable shall comply with ANSI/NSF 61 and the Safe Drinking Water Act.
SUBMITTALS
Action Submittals.  
Product Data: Submit the following for each type and size of fire hydrant, valve, and restraint device, curb stop and corporation stop specified:
Product data sheet.
Complete catalog information, including dimensions, weight, and performance data.  
Informational Submittals:  
Certifications: 
Submit documentation from the manufacturer of each product stating that product conforms to applicable referenced standards and specified requirements.
DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDING
Comply with the manufacturer for special handling and storage requirements.
Conform to Section 01 65 00, Product Delivery Requirements and Section 01 66 00 Product Storage and Handling Requirements.
PRODUCTS
SERVICE CONDITIONS
NTS:  Review Paragraph A below and modify to suit the project.
General:
Water appurtenance items shall be suited for services intended. 
Water appurtenances that will be in contact with potable water shall be listed in ANSI/NSF 61 as being suitable for contact with potable water.   
FIRE HYDRANTS
Fire hydrants shall conform to AWWA C502 and shall be complete with all necessary fittings and accessories.  They shall have one 4 (1/2) inch pump connection and two 2 (1/2) inch hose connections with NSFH threads of four threads and 7 (1/2) threads per inch, respectively.  The hydrant shall open left (counterclockwise) and be of sufficient length for 5 foot burial.  
Contractor shall verify direction of opening with Engineer prior to ordering. 
All hydrants shall be properly painted before shipment and after installation in accordance with AWWA C502.  
Federal yellow shall be the color used to paint all hydrants.  They shall have an auxiliary valve as detailed on fire hydrant assembly standards. 
Hydrants shall be for 250 psi working pressure.  The hydrant shall be such that the valve will remain closed if the upper portion of the fire hydrant is removed or broken off.  The operating nut shall be pentagonal and shall turn counterclockwise to open. 
Contractor shall verify direction of opening with City prior to ordering. 
The hose caps shall be secured to the hydrant with a chain during shipment.  The chains may only be removed after the hydrant is placed into service.
The following fire hydrants are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Clow, Medallion
Mueller, A-423
American Darling/American Flow Control B62B
Kennedy, Guardian
Or Equal
NTS:  Resilient seat gate valves are used for watermain diameters less than 16". For diameters greater than 24' butterfly valves may be used. Remove Section 2.3 if not applicable to project. 
RESILIENT SEAT GATE VALVES
Valves used in water distribution systems shall be resilient seat gate valves unless the valves are not available in a required size.  Butterfly valves may be used in diameters 20-inch and greater where resilient seat gate valves are not available.
Buried valves shall have mechanical joints. Valves shall open right (clockwise) and shall be equipped with O-ring packing and a two inch (2") operating nut and non-rising stem. Contractor shall verify direction of opening with City prior to ordering.
Resilient seated gate valves are to be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C509.  Valves shall be ductile iron bronze mounted.  Resilient seats shall be applied in accordance with AWWA C509.  
Valves shall be designed for a working pressure of 250 psi.
The following resilient seated gate valves are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation, listed by manufacturer and model number:
American Flow Control, 2500 series
Clow, 2639/2640 or 2638
Kennedy, KS-FW or KS-RW
Mueller, 2360 or 2361
Or Engineer approved equal
NTS:  Resilient seat gate valves are typically used for watermain diameters less than 16". For diameters greater than 24' butterfly valves may be used. Remove Section 2.4 if not applicable to project.
BUTTERFLY VALVES
Butterfly valves may be used in diameters 20-inch and greater where resilient seat gate valves are not available.  
Butterfly valves are to be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C504 with stainless steel shafts. The shaft seats, bearings, operators, body and discs shall be designed based on Class 150B.  
Butterfly valves shall be designed for a working pressure of 250 psi.
Seating ring shall be made of rubber and located in the body or on the disc and shall be adjustable and field replaceable.  
Shaft shall be of the through type or stub type and shall be marked on the end to indicate the position of the valve disc with respect to the shaft.  
Discs shall be of corrosion-resistant alloy cast iron.  
Valves shall be equipped with a stainless steel stop in the body to prevent the disc from rotating through the closed position.  The shaft seals shall be of the "split-V" or Chevron type.  The operator shall be permanently lubricated and sealed for buried service and shall be equipped with a 2 inch square opening nut.  The operator shall be constructed such that the valve will open right (clockwise). 
The bolts, screws, and nuts used in the assembly of the valve and exposed to the soil shall be corrosion resistant.
Butterfly valves used in connection with ductile iron pipe shall be equipped with standard mechanical joint ends complete with all accessories as outlined in this chapter.  
The following butterfly valves are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation:
Clow, 4500 Series
Mueller, Lineseal XPII
Dezurik, BAW
Kennedy, 1450 Series
Pratt, Triton XR-70
Or equal
RESTRAINED JOINTS FOR WATER APPURTENANCES
NTS: Delete products 2 thru 5 for pipe sizes 16" and larger.
Provide restrained joints for water appurtenances by one of the following:
EBBA Iron Mega-Lug
Sigma One-Lok
Romac RomaGrip
Stargrip Series 3000
Or equal
NTS: Due to a January 4, 2011 amendment to Section 1417 of the Clean Water Act, all wetted surfaces are required to have less than a weighted average of 0.25% lead content. The following is the listed exemptions from the amendment: not including pipes, pipe fittings, or fixtures, including backflow preventers, that are used exclusively for nonpotable services such as manufacturing, industrial processing, irrigation, outdoor watering, or any other uses where water is not anticipated to be used for human consumption; or toilets, bidets, urinals, fill valves, flushometer valves, tub fillers, shower valves, service saddles, or water distribution main gate valves that are 2 inches in diameter or larger.  This amendment changed the potable water no lead requirement from not more than 8% lead to not more than a weighted average of 0.25%. This law takes effect as of January 4, 2014;  The following products have been updated to the no lead requirement.
CURB STOPS
Curb Stops 
Curb stops shall be ball type valves of extra heavy, all brass construction.  The curb stops shall have a heavy or thick tee-head operator and a 90 degree rotation of the ball.  Each stop shall be equipped with a curb box.  Ball valves shall have Teflon coated balls and hard or synthetic rubber seat-rings.  
The following corporation stops are acceptable for use in connection with water main installations, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Mueller, B-25204N or B-25209N
Ford, B22-NL or B44-NL
McDonald, 76100 or 76100-22
CURB BOX LOCK
Curb Stops 3/4 to 1 inch in diameter 
A curb box lock shall be used on all services.
The following manufacturers and products are approved:
JRC Supplies Inc., Vadle
Or approved equal
CORPORATION STOPS
Corporation Stops 
Corporation stops shall be ball type valves of extra heavy, all brass construction.  The corporation stops shall have a flat, thick, operating head with a 360 degree rotation.    The corporation stop inlet threads shall be machined with standard AWWA tapered threads.  
The following corporation stops are acceptable for use in connection with water main installations, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Mueller, B-25000N or B-25008N
Ford, FB-600NL or FB-1000NL
McDonald, 74701B or 74701B-22
NTS: Tapping saddles are used for plastic piping. A direct tap is used for ductile iron pipe. 
TAPPING SADDLES
Tapping saddles shall be used for all service taps. The tapping saddles and hardware shall be ductile iron with epoxy coating, stainless steel or bronze material with AWWA tapered threads.  The tapping saddle design shall be hinged or bolted, both with a minimum strap width of 2 inches.  3 piece tapping saddle design is not allowed.
VALVE BOXES AND CURB BOXES
Valve boxes shall cast iron, 3 piece, Buffalo, screw type boxes.  The boxes shall be 5 (1/4) inch shaft size with a round base.  The word "water" shall be cast on the box lid.  
Curb boxes shall be cast iron 2 piece, Buffalo, screw type boxes.  The box shall be 3 inches  in diameter with a round base.  The word "water" shall be cast on the lid. The lid shall be held in place with a standard brass pentagon head screw.   
NTS:  Edit Section "2.10 C" below to suit project. Ensure that the detail is included on the Contract Drawings. 
WATER METER BOXES
Provide plastic pit setter water meter box with a frost roof double lid cover and yoke bar. 
Manufactures: 
Ford Meter Box Company, Inc.
Or equal. 
Conform to dimensions shown on the Contract Drawings.. 
AIR RELEASE STRUCTURES 
Structure	
Provide precast concrete air release structures, using a doghouse style manhole.  
Structure Lid 
Casting shall be Self-Sealing or water tight.
Lid shall be stamped with the word WATER and have closed pick holes.
Air Release Valve 
Valmatic Model #25 VC 
Or equal
SILVER SOLDER 
Silver solder used shall be 15 percent silver, 80 percent copper and five percent phosphorus. 
BURIED SERVICE CONNECTION IDENTIFICATION
Identification for Copper and Plastic Water Services with Plastic Mainline	
Tracing Wire
Provide #10 AWG, extra-high strength, copper-clad, steel-reinforced, HDPE-insulated tracing wire for short and long side services. The following materials are acceptable:
Soloshot Copperhead Industries, LLC 
Or equal 
Waterproof Connection Device  
Provide one of the following low voltage waterproof connection devices:
 DRYCONN Direct Bury Lug .
 Or equal.  
Plastic Hose Clamps 
Provide non-metallic plastic hose clamps. 
NTS: Polyethylene wrap is typically used where there are corrosive soils are present and the pipe material or fittings are metal. Remove article 2.14 below if not required for project. Add additional information to suit project.
POLYETHYLENE WRAP
Provide polyethylene wrap for fire hydrant leads and valves; refer to 33 05 33 Ductile Iron Pressure Utility Piping. 
NTS: Edit article 2.15 below based on project specific requirements. Provide standard details on Contract Drawings. Coordinate with Article 3.11 below. 
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
All backflow prevention devices must be approved and listed by the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research as published by the USC. This listing is available from USC or IDEM's Drinking Water Branch.
PAINTING OF EXPOSED VALVES, HYDRANTS, AND APPURTENANCES
Exterior steel, cast-iron, and ductile iron surfaces, except machined surfaces of exposed valves, hydrants, and appurtenances, shall be finish painted in manufacturer's shop. Surface preparation, priming, finish painting, and field touch-up painting shall conform to the coating systems specification.
PAINTING OF BURIED VALVES AND APPURTENANCES
Exterior steel, cast-iron, and ductile iron surfaces, except machined or bearing surfaces of buried valves and appurtenances, shall be painted in manufacturer's shop with two coats of asphalt varnish conforming to FS TT-C 494.
EXECUTION
INSTALLATION
General:
Install water appurtenances as shown, specified, and as recommended by the manufacture.
In the event of conflict between manufacturer's recommendations and the Contract Documents, request interpretation from Engineer before proceeding. 
Location of service connections and insertion valves indicated are approximate. Final location will be established during construction by the Owner.
Do not install service connections until new mains have been successfully tested, disinfected, and placed in service. 
Prior to ordering tapping sleeve assembly, expose existing main and verify circumference of existing pipe.
Prior to ordering insertion valve and sleeve assembly, expose existing main at point of installation and verify circumference, actual caliper diameter and roundness of existing pipe.  In addition, identify the exterior condition of the pipe with respect to pitting, scaling, electrolysis, or other defects which would affect manufacturing dimensions or exact location of the insertion.
FIRE HYDRANTS
Install hydrants as shown and indicated in the Contract Documents.
Provide suitable adapters when hydrants and piping have different joint types.
Provide thrust restraint at all hydrants located at pipeline terminations.
Set hydrants plumb and to grade of curb, street, alley, highway, or right-of-way with pumper nozzle toward middle line of street, highway, or right-of-way.
Set hydrant and on solid earth, crushed stone or well tamped gravel; provide loose stone or gravel fill up to drainage port.
Where fire hydrant must be located in a paved area provide a minimum of 5-foot by 5-foot concrete block-out, with expansion joints on all sides. 
When Engineer deems it necessary to set a fire hydrant at a greater depth of bury as a result of changing hydrant location from that shown, adjust elevation by furnishing and installing the fire hydrant manufacturer's standard barrel and stem extensions.
 VALVES 
Install valves, valve boxes, and curb boxes as shown and indicated in the Contract Documents.
Provide suitable adapters when valves and piping have different joint types.
Provide thrust restraint at all valves located at pipeline terminations.
Set valves plumb and on solid bearing. 
Place valves within park strip areas (grass area between sidewalk and curb), or as directed by the Engineer. 
Assemble, align, and fit tapping sleeve and tapping valve to main using personnel skilled and experienced in making of pressure taps.  In the event of mismatch of purchased materials, refit in the field or make necessary arrangements with manufacturer for factory refit. Remove section of severed water main through tapping valve and present to Owner as proof of satisfactory execution of the operation.  Owner may retain coupon for further analysis or testing to evaluate the condition of existing water main.
Install insertion valves and sleeves using personnel skilled and experienced in the use of the valve insertion machinery and accessory equipment of the type, design and size corresponding to each valve size installed.  Remove section of severed water main and present to Owner as proof of satisfactory execution of the operation.  Owner may retain coupon for further analysis or testing to evaluate the condition of existing water main.
TAPPING PROCEDURES FOR WATER SERVICES
    Tapping saddles must be used for the installation of a corporation stop in a tapped pipe. The tap saddle is made to a specific inner diameter to match the outer diameter of the pipe.  It fully supports the pipe and is sized so that the parts when bolted together cannot be over tightened on the pipe; Manufacturer's installation instructions must be followed.
VALVE BOXES AND CURB BOXES
Center and plumb valve and curb box over valve; set box cover flush with finished grade.
Construct valve box concrete collar; provide expansion joint material around portion of box in concrete pavement or sidewalks.
When Installing the Vadle, follow all manufacturer instructions.
AIR RELEASE STRUCTURES 
Manholes:  
Install structure sections, joints, and gaskets in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
Apply trowelable grade butyl rubber backplaster material 1/4 inch minimum thickness, on the outside of the precast manhole at each joint. 
Apply non-shrink grout to the inside of the precast manhole at each joint.
Lifting holes, if used in manhole components, shall be repaired using a conical precast concrete plug, properly sealed into place using a non-shrink cement epoxy grout. 
Place the base of the doghouse style precast manhole on concrete blocks with a minimum of 6-inches of # 6 compacted stone. 
Encase the waterline in #8 stone flush with the base of the air release valve. 
Join casting frame to structure with a double row of butyl rubber flexible rope joint sealant. 
Air Release Valve:
Install air release valves in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
NTS: Edit section below based on project specific service connection installation requirements. Ensure that the standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. Delete if not applicable.
SMALL SERVICE CONNECTIONS-( (3/4) INCH THRU 2 INCH)
Trenchless Service Connections
Install pipe under street and highway pavements by pushing or boring, in accordance with Section 33 05 23.13 Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.
Ensure service connection has a minimum cover of 4 foot. 
NTS: Ensure that the appropriate tracing wire standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. There are two methods of tracing wire installation depending on if the service connection is metallic or non-metallic.
Buried Piping Identification Tracing for Service Connections. 
Install tracing wire for service connections in accordance with the Contract Drawings.
Ensure connectivity is maintained between the mainline tracer wire and the service connection tracer wire.
All tracing wire splices and connections shall be made using a direct bury waterproof connection device, intended for use with low voltage tracing wire.
When connecting tracing wire from the mainline to a copper service line secure the connection with 2 plastic hose clamps and wrap the connection in waterproof tape. 
NTS: Edit paragraph E through G below based on project specific requirements.
For existing service connections, intercept or extend as shown or noted to connect to new water mains.
For existing service connection pipe to be abandoned, close the exposed end by crimping.
For existing service connections to be abandoned on existing water mains to remain in service, dig up (expose) and turn off the existing corporation stop at the connection to the existing main.
NTS: Edit section below based on project specific service connection installation requirements. Ensure that the standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. Delete if not applicable.
LARGE SERVICE CONNECTIONS-( 4 INCH AND LARGER)
Trenchless Service Connections
Install pipe under street and highway pavements by pushing or boring, in accordance with Section 33 05 23.13 Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.
Minimum cover for services is 4 feet. 
Service Connections on New Mainline
Install tee compatible with the mainline material.
Install a standard gate valve and valve box. 
Service Connections on Mainlines In Service
Install tapping sleeve compatible with the mainline material.
Install a tapping valve and standard valve box. 
CONNECTIONS AND INSERTIONS INTO EXITING MAINS
Existing mains into which valves are to be inserted cannot be shut down or taken out of service.  The entire operation of installing the valves shall be accomplished below 100 psig at the point of installation.
Connect new mains to existing mains using proper fittings and in a manner acceptable to Owner and Engineer.
Expose existing mains at connection points 10 days prior to making connections to determine elevation, verify type of pipe, confirm outside diameter of pipe, and identify type of restraints existing.
No cut-ins or connections to existing mains shall be made unless at least 48 hours notice is given to Owner and Engineer.
Plan all connecting Work to reduce number of shutoffs.
Two days prior to shutting valves on existing lines, notify all affected property owners, local official in charge of the water works system, and Engineer of such shutoff.
Keep shutoff time to a minimum and do at off-peak hours.
A representative of Owner shall operate existing valves.  Contractor shall not operate existing valves.
Owner and Engineer assume no responsibility for any delay occasioned by special requirements or conditions which must be met in making connections.
Take extreme care in making connections to prevent contamination of existing mains.
Before making cut-ins or connections to existing mains, wash all fittings, valves, and pipe with clean water, and then disinfect by washing with a chlorine solution having a residual chlorine strength of not less than 50 ppm.
Plugs removed from existing mains that are not damaged may be reused within the Project, and those remaining after completion of construction shall remain the property of Owner.
WATER METER BOXES
Install assemblies as shown or noted and with meter pit cover at grade level; comply with component manufacturer's instructions.
Install meter setters level and plump. 
Do not install meter pits in street, parking lots, driveways, or any area where vehicular traffic may occur.  
NTS: Backflow prevention devices are typically for business and manufacturing facilities that use the potable water in a process. They are used to protect the main waterline, during a loss of pressure, from siphoning the facilities process water back into the system. Edit section below based on project specific requirements.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
 Install backflow valves in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations. 

+ + END OF SECTION + +

 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY UTILITIES
DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
Book 5
Materials (MA)
MA6 Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements
June 2015

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

MA6.01 Purpose
This Chapter covers typical materials used non-pressure and pressurized
sanitary sewer utility projects. Variances form these materials must be
approved in compliance with Chapter - GR3 Variances.

MA6.02 Allowable Pipe Materials and Testing Requirements
Figure MA6.1 summarizes pipe materials used for sanitary sewer installations
and is to be used as a reference for acceptable sanitary sewer pipe materials.
The following Sections within this Chapter list more detailed requirements for
each pipe material.

Pipe Material
Ductile Iron (DIP)

Figure MA6.1 Allowable Pipe Materials
1
Min.
Sizes (Diameter, in.)
Designation
Cover
Minimum 2Maximum
(ft)

Bedding
Requirements

Master
Spec
Number

Flexible
Detail - BS-5

33 05 33

Rigid
Detail - BS-4

33 05 34.13

AWWA C151

8

60

RCP-ASTM
C76

24

144

HEP/VEPASTM C507

24/36

144

Polyvinyl
Chloride(PVC)

ASTM D3034

8

15

ASTM F679

18

27

Polyvinyl
Chloride(PVC)
Pressure

AWWA C900

4

12

AWWA C905

14

36

High Density
Polyethylene
(HDPE) Pressure

AWWA C906

2

24

Dual Wall
Corrugated
Polypropylene (PP)

ASTM F2736

8

27

33 05 51

Fiberglass
Reinforced Plastic
(FRP)

ASTM D3262

18

27

33 05 39

Reinforced
Concrete

33 05 37.13

4

33 05 37.16

Flexible
Detail - BS-5

33 05 38.16

Note: 1 - Minimum cover from finished grade to top of pipe (O.D), at completion of all project restoration.
Note 2 - Proposed pipe sizes larger than 27-inch diameter for PVC, PP, and FRP and sizes larger than 24-inch for HDPE shall have the approval of
City Utilities.

1. Pipe Testing Requirements
The following subsections include quality assurance and quality control
requirements for the pipe material listed in this chapter.

June 1, 2015

1

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

2.

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Quality Assurance
A. Manufacturers Qualifications




Pipe manufacturers shall have a minimum of 5 years of
successful experience producing specified pipe and
fittings, and document their success by showing
evidence of at least 5 installations in satisfactory
operation within the United States.
Concrete pipe and fittings shall be from a source listed
in the most recent INDOT list of Certified Precast
Concrete Producers, in accordance with ITM 813.

B. Supply and Compatibility


3.

Pipe, fittings and appurtenances shall be suitable for the
specified service and integrated into the overall piping
system by the pipe supplier.

Field Quality Control
This section covers pipe-testing requirements after installation of the
pipe. The following testing is required for sanitary sewer projects:
•
•
•

Vertical Deflection Test (Mandrel Test) for Flexible Pipe
Televised Inspections (for public projects)
Low Pressure Air Test

The following testing for sanitary sewer pipe is used based on project
specific requirements:
•
•

Hydrostatic Test
Large Diameter Pipe Joint Test

A. Vertical Deflection Test (Mandrel Test) for Flexible Pipe
1. Vertical deflection tests are conducted not less than 30
days after the bedding and backfill have been placed.
2. Testing is conducted on all pipe runs (defined as length
of continuous pipe from structure to structure)
containing 3 or more pipe-to-pipe joints.
3. A rigid ball or mandrel that has a diameter of at least
95% of base inside diameter or average inside diameter
of piping is used. The ball diameter depends on which is
specified in applicable ASTM standard, including the
appendix, to which the pipe is manufactured.
4. The test is performed without mechanical pulling
devices.
5. Pipe segments that exceed a deflection of 5% are not
acceptable and must be replaced/repaired in
compliance with City Utilities Engineering standards.

June 1, 2015

2

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Televised Inspection
1. Televise completed sewer and appurtenant structures,
including manholes and chambers, and provide to City
Utilities Engineering copy of video on digital video disc
(DVD) or portable storage device. Software shall be
compatible with Pipelogics version 6.0 software.
2. Inspection shall be performed by a company certified in
Pipeline Assessment Certification Program (PACP) by
National Association of Sewer Service Companies
(NASSCO). Provide copy of PACP certification prior to
starting inspection.
3. Televising shall conform to coding and reporting
standards and guidelines specified in PACP. Identify
report annotations, pipe conditions, and pipe defects in
accordance with PACP. Severity ratings shall be
calculated in accordance with PACP.
4. Camera for main line shall be pan-and-tilt, radial
viewing, pipe inspection camera that pans plus-orminus 275 degrees and rotates 360 degrees. Use
camera with an accurate footage counter that displays
on television monitor exact distance of camera from
centerline of starting manhole. Use camera with height
adjustment so that lens is always centered at one-half
inside diameter or higher in pipe being televised.
Provide lighting system that allows features and
condition of pipe to be clearly seen. Camera shall
operate in 100 percent humidity. Camera, television
monitor, and other components of video system must
produce a minimum 450-line resolution colored video
picture. Picture quality and definition shall be
satisfactory to City Utilities Engineering.
5. Repair apparent leaks in pipe in manner satisfactory to
City Utilities Engineering without additional cost to City
Utilities and re-televise the pipe.
C. Low Pressure Air Test for Gravity Sewers:




DIP (for diameters ≤ 36-inches)
PVC
HDPE
1. Plug and bulkhead ends of pipe segment to be tested.
2. One plug shall have an orifice to pass air and a second
orifice shall be continuously connected to a pressure
gauge having a range of 0 to 10 psi, minimum divisions
of 0.10 psi, and accuracy of 0.04 +/- psi.
3. The air supply line shall have a positive on-off valve and
suitable means for readily disconnecting from the
control panel.

June 1, 2015

3

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

4. The section of pipe shall be pressurized to
approximately 4 psi.
5. The air shall be shut off and allowed to stabilize for a
minimum of 2 min. If during this time the pressure
drops below 3.5 psi, more air shall be added to raise
pressure to a minimum of 3.5 psi.
6. After the air has stabilized, the air line shall be
disconnected and timing will begin.
7. The time of test in minutes will be equivalent to onehalf of the nominal diameter of the pipe being tested.
8. The maximum allowable pressure drop during the
specified time period will be 1.0 psi.
D. Hydrostatic Testing for:




DI Pressure Pipe (AWWA Manual M41)
PVC Pressure Pipe (AWWA Standard C605)
HDPE Pressure Pipe (ASTM F2164)

1. Preparation for Testing:
•

Follow appropriate preparation for testing as specified in
the manuals above for specified pipe material.

•

Prior to testing, the contractor shall ensure that the line is
clean and free of dirt and debris.

•

Prior to testing, ensure that adequate thrust protection is in
place and joints are properly installed.

•

Prior to testing, install test riser and ensure equipment is
properly calibrated.

2. Test Procedure for DIP and PVC Pressure Pipe:

June 1, 2015

•

Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge
pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length
per second in pipe being tested.

•

Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval of City
Utilities Engineering prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.

•

Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to
eliminate visible leakage.

•

Add fluid as required to pressurize line to 150 psi or
otherwise specified test pressure. Maintain test pressure
for a stabilization period of ten minutes before beginning
test.

•

Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been
filled, air has been expelled, and pressure stabilized.

•

Timed Test Period: After stabilization period, maintain test
pressure for at least two hours. During timed testing

4

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

period, add fluid as required to maintain pressure within
five psig of required test pressure.
•

Pump from test container to maintain test pressure.
Measure volume of water pumped from test container and
record on test report. Record pressure at test pump at 15
minute intervals for duration of test.

•

Results of the test shall be logged using the inspection form
provided in Exhibit MA6-1.

3. Test Procedure for HDPE Pressure Pipe:
•

Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge
pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length
per second in pipe being tested.

•

Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval of City
Utilities Engineering prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.

•

Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to
eliminate visible leakage.

•

The test section and the test liquid shall be allowed to
equalize to a common temperature.

•

After filling pipeline and purging air, gradually pressurize
pipe to 150 psi or otherwise specified test pressure and
maintain required test pressure for 4 hours for pipe to
expand. During expansion, add fluid to maintain required
test pressure. Begin timed test period after expansion
period and other requirements are met.

•

Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been
filled, exposed to required wetting period, air has been
expelled, and pressure stabilized.

•

Timed Test Period: After 4-hour expansion phase, reduce
test pressure by 10 psig and do not add liquid. Test
pressure shall then remain steady for 1 hour, indicating no
leakage.

•

If no visible leakage is observed and pressure remains
within 5% of the original test pressure for 1 hour, a passing
test is indicated.

•

Results of the test shall be logged using the inspection form
provided in Exhibit MA6-2.

4. Makeup Water Allowances:

June 1, 2015

•

The allowable makeup water allowance is the maximum
amount of water that is added into a pipeline undergoing
hydrostatic pressure testing. The allowable leakage rates for
the various pipe materials and joints are listed below.

•

Pipes with flanged, welded, or fused joints
5

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements


•

No addition of makeup water

Allowance rates for DIP and PVC pipes joined with rubber
gaskets as sealing members include the following joint
types; bell and spigot, push on, mechanical, bolted sleeve
type couplings, grooved and shouldered couplings


Calculate makeup water rates using the following
equation.

=

√
148,000

Where:
Q = quantity of makeup water (gph)
L = length of pipe section being tested (ft)
D = nominal diameter of the pipe (in)
P = average test pressure during the hydrostatic
test (psigauge)


Figure MA6.2 represents the calculated values of
rates per 1,000 feet of pipe at the 150 psi test
pressure.

Figure MA6.2 Allowable Testing Allowance for DIP and PVC Pipe (per 1,000’ of pipeline at 150 psi)
Nominal Pipe Diameter (in)

Testing Allowance (gph)

4

0.33

6

0.50

8

0.66

10

0.83

12

0.99

16

1.32

20

1.66

24

1.99

30

2.48

36

2.98

42

3.48

48

3.97

54

4.47

60

4.97

Note: Table is an excerpt from AWWA M41 and AWWA C605.

June 1, 2015

6

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

E. Continuity Testing
Continuity testing of the tracing wire shall be performed by the
contractor in the presence of the engineer. Continuity testing shall
be performed using a direct-connect signal generating device and
Schonstedt or equivalent underground pipe locating equipment
along mains. Breaks in conductivity shall be repaired and the wire
re-tested until tracing wire passes test.

MA6.03 Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)
This section covers ductile iron pipe (DIP) for buried applications. Figure
MA6.3 lists acceptable ductile iron pipe for sanitary sewer applications.
•
Standard ductile iron pipe is cement mortar lined with a bituminous
seal-coat.
•
Consider alternative linings for services involving abrasives, pH levels
below 4 and above 12 (6 and 12 without seal coat), acids, industrial
wastes, chemicals and scum and grease lines.

Material

Ductile
Iron (DIP)

Figure MA6.3 –Ductile Iron Pipe
Pressure Class
Designation
Joints
Class Designation
350
Push-on
AWWA C150 AWWA
AWWA C151
250C111
350

Gaskets

Lining

Coating

Vulcanized
SBR

Cement
MortarAWWA
C104

AsphalticAWWA
C151

Sizes (in)
Min Max

8

12

14

60

1. Exterior Coating
Minimum thickness of the asphaltic coating is 1-mil.
2. Exterior Wrap
Encase DIP and appurtenances in a polyethylene wrap in accordance
with AWWA C105. Polyethylene wrap supplied in sheets or tubes is
acceptable. Minimum thickness of linear low-density polyethylene film
is 8-mils. Circumferential wraps of adhesive tape should be placed at 2foot intervals along the barrel of the pipe.

MA6.04 Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)
This section covers RCP for use in non-pressure sanitary sewer applications.
Figure MA6.4 list various non-pressure concrete utility piping.

June 1, 2015

7

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA6.4 Reinforced Concrete Pipe
Material

Class

Reinforced
Concrete
Pipe (RCP)
1

Horizontal
Elliptical
Pipe (HEP)
1

Vertical
Elliptical
Pipe (VEP)

III
IV
V
HE-II
HE-III
HE-IV

Designation

Joints

Gaskets

ASTM C76

Bell and
Spigot

Rubber
Gasket
ASTM C443

ASTM C507

VE-III
VE-IV
VE-V
VE-VI

Tongue
and
Groove

Sizes (in)
Min

Max

24

144

24

144

36

144

Flexible
Sealant
ASTM C990

Note-1-The sizes listed are the pipe designated equivalent round size; refer to the related ASTM for exact pipe dimensions.

1.

Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)
•
•

Select pipe class based on the project specific external live and
dead loads.
Class III pipe is the minimum class accepted for sanitary sewers.

A. Reinforced concrete pipe with bell and spigot joints uses either of
the following gaskets.


2.

Rubber gaskets conforming to ASTM C443 intended to
be watertight.
Flexible Joint Sealants conforming to ASTM C990
intended to prevent the flow of solids through the joint.

Horizontal and Vertical Elliptical Pipe (HEP / VEP)
•

Select pipe class based on the external live and dead loads.




Horizontal elliptical pipe - Class HE-II is the minimum
accepted for public storm water facilities.
Vertical elliptical pipe - VE-III is the minimum accepted
for public storm water facilities.
Elliptical pipe size is specified by (rise” x span”).

MA6.05 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe- Non-Pressure
This section covers non-pressurized PVC pipe, Figure MA6.5 lists typical PVC
pipe.
Figure MA6.5 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe-Non-Pressure
Material

Designation

Joints

Gaskets

Fittings

ASTM D3034

Bell and
Spigot

ASTM F477
and ASTM
D3212

ASTM
D3034
ASTM F679

PVC Pipe
ASTM F679

June 1, 2015

Sizes (in)
Min

Max

8

15

18

27

8

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

1.

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

PVC Pipe
Pipe manufactured per ASTM D3034 is available in four standard
dimension ratios (SDR). For sanitary sewers, a minimum wall thickness
of SDR 35 is required.
Pipe manufactured per ASTM F679 is available in three pipe stiffness’s.
For sanitary sewers, a minimum pipe stiffness of forty-six (46) psi is
required.

MA6.06 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe - Pressure
This section covers pressurized PVC pipe and the various joint types. Figure
MA7.4 list typical pressure PVC pipe used for buried applications. Tracing
wire must be used when this pipe is specified.
1.

Pressure PVC Pipe
Minimum wall thickness for sanitary sewer applications is DR 18, sizes
are based on DIP size.

2.

Gaskets
When pipe is installed in oil contaminated soils use Nitrile Gaskets.

3.

Pipe Material Designation
Pipe and couplings are made from PVC compounds having a minimum
cell classification of 12454, as defined in ASTM D 1784.

Material

Designation

Polyvinyl
Chloride
Pipe (PVC)

AWWA C900
AWWA C905

Certa-Lok
PVC

AWWA
C900/RJTM

Figure MA6.6 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe- Pressure
Sizes (in)
Joints
Gaskets
Fittings
Min
Max
AWWA
4
12
Bell and
ASTM F477
C110
AWWA
Spigot
ASTM D3139
14
36
C111
PVC
Coupling

ASTM F477

Ductile Iron

4

16

MA6.07 High Density Polyethylene Pipe (HDPE)-Pressure
This section covers pressurized HDPE pipe. FigureMA7.5 list typical HDPE pipe
used for buried applications. Tracing wire must be used when this pipe is
specified.
1. Pressure HDPE Pipe
Minimum wall thickness for sanitary sewer applications is is DR11, sizes
are based on DIP size.
2. Pipe Material Designation
Pipe material used for the manufacture of HDPE shall be extra high
molecular weight, high density ethylene/hexane copolymer PE 4710

June 1, 2015

9

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

polyethylene resin meeting the requirements of ASTM D3350 with a cell
classification of PE 445574C.
3. Pipe Joints
All joints must be butt-fused or jointed with electrofusion couplings.
Mechanical joints and couplings are prohibited.
4. Adaptors
Fused mechanical joint adaptors shall be used to connect to fittings and
valves. Pipe stiffeners are not permitted.

Material
High Density
Polyethylene
(HDPE) Pressure
Pipe

Figure MA6.7 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) - Pressure
Sizes (in)
Designation
Joints
Gaskets
Fittings
Min
Max

AWWA C906

Butt Heat
Fusion
ASTM
D3262

-

Ductile
Iron

2*

24

Note: * 2-inch diameter is minimum size for low pressure systems. 4-inch shall be the minimum diameter for all other applications.

MA6.08 Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)
Figure MA6.8 lists typical PP. PP for sanitary sewers is available in corrugated
dual wall pipe with water tight joints.
Figure MA6.8 Polypropylene (PP) Pipe
Type

Pipe Designation

Joints

Gaskets

Fittings

Dual-Wall Corrugated
PP Pipe

ASTM F2736

Bell and
Spigot
(ASTMF2736)

ASTM
F477

ASTM
F2736

1.

Sizes (in)
Min
Max

8

27

Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)
Corrugated dual walled PP pipe has a smooth interior liner in the
waterway and includes exterior corrugation that helps brace the pipe
against deformations.


Sanitary sewer joints and fittings shall be watertight and
conform to the requirements of ASTM D3212.

MA6.09 Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Pipe
This section covers FRP pipe for sanitary sewers. Figure MA6.9 lists typical
FRP pipe.

June 1, 2015

10

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA6.9 Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Pipe
Type

Fiberglass
Reinforced
Plastic (FRP) Pipe

Pipe Designation

Joints

Gaskets

Fittings

ASTM D3262

Field
ConnectionFiberglass Sleeve
Coupling – ASTM
D4161

ASTM F477

ASTM D3262

Sizes (in)
Min
Max

18

27

MA6.10 Building Sewers and Appurtenances
This section covers building sewer and appurtenances for all connections to
the public sanitary sewer.
1. Pipe Materials
Figure MA6.10 lists appropriate building sewer pipe materials.
Figure MA6.10 Building Sewer Pipe Materials
Type

Pipe
Designation

Classification

Joints

Gaskets

ASTM D3034

-

Polyvinyl
Chloride
Pipe (PVC)

ASTM
D3034

SDR35

Bell and Spigot

ASTM
F477
ASTM
D3139

High Density
Polyethylene
(HDPE) Pipe

AWWA
C906

DR 11

Butt Heat
Fusion
ASTM D3261

-

Fittings

Acceptable
Minimum Size
(in)
Min

6
6

1¼*

*For low pressure building sewer, minimum acceptable size is 1 ¼-inch. For all other applications, use minimum
diameter of 6-inches.

2. Building Connection and Cleanouts
For acceptable building sewer connections, refer to standard detail SAN1. Schedule 40 PVC clean out caps are acceptable for building sewer
cleanouts.
3. Grease Interceptor and Sand/Oil Separators
For acceptable grease interceptors, refer to standard details STR-24 and
STR-24-1.
4. Inspection Manholes/Non- Metered Control Manhole
For acceptable metered control manholes and non-metered control
manholes, refer to standard details STR-11-1 and STR-11-2, respectively.

June 1, 2015

11

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

MA6.11 Manholes
1.

Quality Assurance
A.

Manufacturer Qualifications
Precast sanitary sewer manholes shall be from a source listed in the
most recent INDOT list of Certified Precast Concrete Producers.

B. Supply and Compatibility
Imperfections in precast manhole sections may be repaired, subject
to the approval of City Utilities Engineering, after demonstration by
the manufacturer that a strong and permanent repair will result.
Repairs shall be carefully inspected before final approval.
C. Field Quality Control
Conduct vacuum testing on all sanitary sewer manholes in
accordance with ASTM C1244.

Temporarily plug pipe connections entering manhole to
be tested.

All pipes entering the manhole shall be temporarily
plugged, taking care to securely brace the pipes and
plugs to prevent them from being drawn into the
manhole.

Following set-up of test apparatus, draw vacuum of 10inches of mercury on manhole being tested. The time
shall be measured for the vacuum to drop to 9-inches
mercury.

Start test upon reaching specified test vacuum. Test
duration shall be in accordance with ASTM C1244.
• Minimum test times for various manhole
diameters shall conform to the Figure MA6.11
per ASTM C1244, or be 1 minute, whichever is
longer:
Figure MA6.11 Vacuum Test Times (Modified table per ASTM C1244)
Depth
(ft)
<4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
June 1, 2015

48

54

60

66

Diameter, in.
72
78
84
90
Time, in seconds

96

102

108

114

120

62
72
83
93
103
114
124
134
145
155

67
78
89
100
111
122
133
144
155
166

71
83
95
107
119
131
143
155
167
178

63
76
89
101
114
126
139
152
164
177
189

67
81
94
108
121
135
148
161
175
188
202

71
85
100
114
128
142
156
170
185
199
213

60

64
69
74

64
64
75
81
87

65
72
78
85
91
98

65
72
79
87
94
101
108

69
73
81
89
97
105
113
121

62
70
79
88
97
106
114
123
132

67
76
86
95
105
114
124
133
143

12

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

2.

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Sanitary Sewer Manholes
Precast sanitary sewer manholes are manufactured by wet or dry cast
methods using forms. Figure MA6.12 lists typical sanitary sewer
manholes. Sanitary manholes shall be constructed with Type II Portland
Cement and have a maximum water/cement ratio of 0.45.

Material

Precast
Concrete

Figure MA6.12 Sanitary Sewer Manholes
Standard
Designation
Joints
Gaskets*
Drawing
STR-20-1
STR-20-2 Tongue
Preformed
ASTM C478 STR-20-3
and
Flexible Sealant
(ASTM C990)
STR-20-4 Groove

Sizes (in)
Min Max

48

96**

Note *: Rubber gaskets manufactured in accordance with ASTM C44, may be used in lieu of preformed flexible sealant.
Note **: For structures larger than 96” in diameter, consult CUE.

3.

Joint Exterior
A. To seal the exterior of the manhole joint use a trowable butyl
rubber backplaster around the circumference of the joint. The
following materials and manufacturers are acceptable:



Trowable EZ Stik # 3 by Press Seal Gasket Corporation,
or
Approved Equal

B. To protect the trowable butyl rubber backplaster install
polyethylene plastic sheeting covering the butyl rubber. The
following materials and manufacturers are acceptable:


4.

6-mil polyethylene plastic sheeting film by Visqueen, or
Approved Equal

Metal Castings and Rings
Refer to Section MA6.12, Castings, Frames, and Covers.

5.

Manhole Steps
Manhole steps are not acceptable in sanitary sewer manholes.

6.

Poured In Place Manhole Bases
For manhole diameters of 48-inches, refer to standard detail STR 12-1.
For manhole diameters ranging from 54 to 96-inches refer to standard
detail STR 12-2.

7.

Resilient Connectors between Manhole Structures and Pipes.
To protect against infiltration and create a watertight joint, provide a
resilient connector between each pipe entering and exiting the
manhole. Refer to Figure MA6.13 for acceptable resilient connectors.

June 1, 2015

13

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA6.13 Resilient Connectors
Pipe Size Range

Designation

Manufacturers and Products

Press Seal PSX: Positive Seal
≤36-inch Diameter

Detail

STR 14-1

NPC Kor N-Seal II 306 Series

ASTM C923

A-Lok Premium
Press Seal WS 30: Waterstop
Grouting Ring

> 36-inch
Diameter

STR 14-2

MA6.12 Castings, Frames, and Covers
1.

Sanitary Metal Castings
This section covers iron castings for various types of manhole frames
and covers. Figure MA6.14 lists sanitary sewer manhole metal castings

Casting Type

Designation

Figure MA6.14 Metal Castings
Neenah Foundry
Standard
Company
Class Drawing
Number
Frame
Lid/Grate

24” Sanitary
Manhole
Casting
Watertight
Sanitary
Manhole
Casting

ASTM A48

Standard
Cleanout
Casting
2.

35B

East Jordan Iron Works
Inc.
Frame
Lid/Grate

C-1-1

R-1772

Solid

1022Z1

Solid

C-2-1
C-2-2

R-1772

Solid
Bolted

1022Z1PT

Solid
Bolted

C-3-1
C-3-2

R-1976

Solid

1578

Solid

Manhole Adjusting Rings and Chimney Seals
A. Concrete riser rings are used to adjust the finish elevation of the
metal casting. Adhere grade rings using a preformed flexible joint
sealant manufactured in accordance with ASTM C990 and AASHTOM198. Maximum number of rings that may be used on a structure is
2. Adjusting rings may range in height from 2-inches to 6-inches.
See detail STR-23-1.
B. To protect against infiltration and help seal the joints between the
manhole structure, adjustment rings, and metal castings, provide
one of the following external chimney seals:




June 1, 2015

External Chimney Seal by Cretex Specialty Products, or
Wrapidseal by CANUSA-CPS, or
Approved Equal.
14

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

MA6.13 Sanitary Lift Station Components
1. Duplex Submersible Pump Stations
The following material requirements are specific to duplex submersible
lift stations.
A. Pumps
Base lift station pump design on current manufactures
recommendations of Xylem Flygt Pumps.
B. Pump Design
The pumps shall be automatically and firmly connected to the
discharge connection, guided by 304 stainless steel guide bars
extending from the top of the station to the discharge connection.
There shall be no need for personnel to enter the wet well. Sealing
of the pumping unit to the discharge connection shall be
accomplished by a machined metal to metal watertight contact. No
portion of the pump shall bear directly on the sump floor.

C. Pump Construction
Major pump components shall be grey cast iron, ASTM A-48, Class
35B, with smooth surface devoid of blow holes or other
irregularities. All exposed nuts and bolts shall be AISI Type 316
stainless steel. All metal surfaces coming in contact with the pump,
other than stainless steel or brass, shall be protected by a factory
applied spray coating of acrylic dispersion zinc phosphate primer
with a polyester resin paint finish on the exterior of the pump.
D. Cable Entry Seal
The cable entry seal design shall preclude specific torque
requirements to insure a watertight and submersible seal. The cable
entry shall consist of a single cylindrical elastomer grommet, flanked
by washers, all having a close tolerance fit against the cable outside
diameter and the entry inside diameter and compressed by the
body containing a strain relief function, separate from the function
of sealing the cable. The assembly shall provide ease of changing
the cable when necessary using the same entry seal. The cable entry
junction chamber and motor shall be separated by terminal board,
which shall isolate the interior from foreign material gaining access
through the pump top.
E. Pump Motor
The pump motor shall be a NEMA B design, induction type with a
squirrel cage rotor, shell type design, housed in an air filled,
watertight chamber. The stator windings shall be insulated with
moisture resistant Class H insulation rated for 180°C (356°F). The
stator shall be insulated by the trickle impregnation method using
Class H monomer-free polyester resin resulting in a winding fill
June 1, 2015

15

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

factor of at least 95%. The motor shall be inverter duty rated in
accordance with NEMA MG1, Part 31.The stator shall be heat-shrink
fitted into the cast iron stator housing. The use of multiple step dip
and bake-type stator insulation process is not acceptable. The use of
bolts, pins or other fastening devices requiring penetration of the
stator housing is not acceptable. The motor shall be designed for
continuous duty handling pumped media of 40°C (104°F) and
capable of no less than 15 [30 for Premium Efficiency Motors]
evenly spaced starts per hour. The rotor bars and short circuit rings
shall be made of cast aluminum. Thermal switches set to open at
125°C (260°F) shall be embedded in the stator end coils to monitor
the temperature of each phase winding. These thermal switches
shall be used in conjunction with and supplemental to external
motor overload protection and shall be connected to the control
panel. The junction chamber containing the terminal board shall be
hermetically sealed from the motor by an elastomer compression
seal. Connection between the cable conductors and stator leads
shall be made with threaded compression type binding posts
permanently affixed to a terminal board. The motor and the pump
shall be produced by the same manufacturer.
The combined service factor (combined effect of voltage, frequency
and specific gravity) shall be a minimum of 1.15. The motor shall
have a voltage tolerance of plus or minus 10%. The motor shall be
designed for operation up to 40°C (104°F) ambient and with a
temperature rise not to exceed 80°C. A performance chart shall be
provided upon request showing curves for torque, current, power
factor, input/output kW and efficiency. This chart shall also include
data on starting and no-load characteristics. The motor horsepower
shall be adequate so that the pump is non-overloading throughout
the entire pump performance curve from shut-off through run-out.
The motor shall be capable of continuous submergence underwater
without loss of watertight integrity to a depth of 65 feet or greater.
The power cable shall be sized according to the NEC and ICEA
standards and shall be of sufficient length to reach the junction box
without the need of any splices. The outer jacket of the cable shall
be oil resistant chlorinated polyethylene rubber. The cable shall be
capable of continuous submergence underwater without loss of
watertight integrity to a depth of 65 feet or greater.
F. Bearings
The pump shaft shall rotate on two bearings. Motor bearings shall
be permanently grease lubricated. The upper bearing shall be a
single deep groove ball bearing. The lower bearing shall be a two
row angular contact bearing to compensate for axial thrust and
radial forces. Single row lower bearings are not acceptable.
G. Mechanical Seal

June 1, 2015

16

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Each pump shall be provided with a tandem mechanical shaft seal
system consisting of two totally independent seal assemblies. The
seals shall operate in a lubricant reservoir that hydro dynamically
lubricates the lapped seal faces at a constant rate. The lower,
primary seal unit, located between the pump and the lubricant
chamber, shall contain one stationary and one positively driven
rotating tungsten-carbide ring. The upper, secondary seal unit,
located between the lubricant chamber and the motor housing,
shall contain one stationary tungsten-carbide seal ring and one
positively driven rotating tungsten-carbide seal ring. Each seal
interface shall be held in contact by its own spring system. The
seals shall require neither maintenance nor adjustment nor depend
on direction of rotation for sealing. No system requiring a pressure
differential to offset pressure and to affect sealing shall be used.
Each pump shall be provided with a lubricant chamber for the shaft
sealing system. The lubricant chamber shall be designed to prevent
overfilling and to provide lubricant expansion capacity. The drain
and inspection plug, with positive anti-leak seal shall be easily
accessible from the outside. The motor shall be able to operate dry
without damage while pumping under load. Seal lubricant shall be
FDA approved, non-toxic.
H. Protection
All stators shall incorporate thermal switches in series to monitor
the temperature of each phase winding. At 260 degrees F, the
thermal switches shall open, stop the motor and activate an alarm.
A leakage sensor shall be provided to detect water in the stator
chamber. The float leakage sensor (FLS) is a small float switch used
to detect the presence of water in the stator chamber. When
activated, the FLS will stop the motor and send an alarm both local
and/or remote. Use of voltage sensitive solid state sensors and trip
temperature above 125 degrees C (260 degrees F) shall not be
allowed. The thermal switches and FLS shall be connected to a mini
CAS (Control and Status) monitoring unit. The mini CAS shall be
designed to be mounted in the control panel.
2. Pipe and Valves
A. Pipe
The discharge pipe and fittings shall be ductile iron Class 350. Inside
pipe and fittings shall be flanged. Bell end pipes or fittings with
mechanical joints shall be provided at or near the outside face of
the station well. Piping shall be supported independent of the
sewage flanges. Piping joints shall be EBAA Iron Works Megalug
Series 1100 mechanical joint restraints for ductile iron pipe.
All metal piping other than cast or ductile iron and copper tubing
shall be galvanized steel pipe. Guide rails and all interior
miscellaneous metals, including bolts, shall be stainless steel.
June 1, 2015

17

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Valves
All plug valves shall be lever operated. One lever shall be provided
for each plug valve. All plug valves shall be Dezurik Style PEF
eccentric plug valve with square nut actuator.
All check valves shall be iron body, bronze mounted with outside
weight and lever swing type with bolted covers and flanged ends.
Provide swing type check valves as manufactured by Clow or M & H,
The style of swing check valve varies with size, specific the lever and
weight based on specific project requirements.
3. Wet Well, Valve Vaults
A. Wet Well and valve vaults shall be circular pre-cast concrete,
conforming to the requirements of ASTM C478, with a minimum
compressive strength of 4,000 psi.
B. Gaskets: Use rubber O-ring gaskets manufactured in accordance
with ASTM C443.




Use a sand-cement mixture mortar to seal the interior
joints. Mortar mix shall be one part cement to two parts
sand.
Wrap the exterior joints with a 6-inch wide EZ-wrap.

4. Station Access Hatches
The following manufacturers are acceptable for lift station access
hatches:



Bilco
Halliday

A. Frames shall be ¼-inch extruded aluminum with an anchor flange
around the perimeter. Mill finish with bituminous coating to be
applied to exterior frame by manufacturer.
B. Door leaf shall be ¼-inch aluminum diamond plate reinforced with
aluminum stiffeners. The door shall open to 90-degrees and lock
automatically in that position. Door shall be built to withstand a live
load of 300 lbs per square foot.
C. Use all stainless steel hardware. Handle shall be snap lock and
removable.
D. A 1 ½-inch drainage coupling shall be provided in the right front
corner of the channel frame.
E. Factory finish shall be aluminum lacquer. All surfaces in contact with
concrete shall have a bituminous coating.
F. The access hatches shall be of the minimum size required for
unobstructed access or equipment removal.
G. Each access hatch shall be equipped with aluminum safety grating.
The safety grate shall be made of 6061 – T6 aluminum safety grating
per the most current edition of the Specification for Aluminum
June 1, 2015

18

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Structures by the Aluminum Association, Inc. The grating shall
withstand a minimum live load of 300 psf, using 17,300 psi as the
design stress for the aluminum. Both the access hatch and safety
grating shall be from the same manufacturer.





Grate openings shall be 5-inches by 5-inches.
Provide grates with a permanent hinging system, which
will lock the grate in the 90-degree position once
opened.
Coat the grate with an OSHA type safety orange color
powder coating system applied by electrostatic spray
process.

5. Electrical, Controls, and Control Panels
The following requirements may change depending on the type of
power that is available at the site.
A. Level sensors
Provide a multi-point float stick and a submersible continuous level
sensor to measure water depth in the wet well. The multi-point
float stick shall serve as the primary level sensor. Cable and probe
lengths are based on wet well depth and control panel location. The
following are acceptable level sensors:





Pump Control and Monitoring Equipment: MultiTrode®,
Inc. MultiSmart model MSM3MP.
Continuous Level Sensors: MultiTrode® model MTPT
with mounting bracket, intrinsic safety barrier, and
other items as required.
Multi-point float stick: MultiTrode® probe, mounting
brackets, intrinsic safety barrier, and other items as
required.

B. Enclosures









June 1, 2015

The enclosure shall contain a properly sized cooling
unit. Enclosures only require installation of a cooling
unit if controls and VFD will be placed in same
enclosure. Cooling units manufactured by ICE QUBE INC.
are acceptable.
The interior of the enclosure shall be provided with
properly sized industrial grade corrosion inhibitors.
The enclosure shall be provided with thermostatically
controlled, properly sized condensate heater. The
heater shall be mounted on the lower portion of the
enclosure internal panel.
Furnish a door limit switch actuated panel fluorescent
light, similar to Hoffman Catalog No. A LFDA2.
Include a door intrusion alarm.
Integrate alarm beacon light.

19

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements










Panduit shall be installed as a wire way. This wire way
should be 40% larger than required for future wiring.
All conduit entry into the enclosure, originating from
the wet well, shall be sealed with explosion-proof
conduit seals to prevent moisture and gas vapors from
entering the enclosure.
All wiring within the enclosure must use plastic wiring
ducts. Do not mix low level signal wiring with high
voltage (110 Volts AC or greater) wiring in the same
duct.
Include reference sheet in an archival quality acid-free
sheet protector. It shall list initial pump set points, float
stick set points, and wet well elevations. Include level
controller ‘zero’ elevation.
Enclosure shall be NEMA 4X stainless steel.

C. Power
The incoming pump power wiring shall be terminated at distribution
lugs and shall be provided with voltage surge arresters to protect all
equipment mounted within the enclosure from switching surges
and lightning induced surges.


Locate surge arresters in such a manner as to facilitate
inspection and future replacement of damaged units.
Comply with UL 1449 and ANSI C62.41 Standards.

Power within the panel shall be distributed further through thermal
magnetic circuit breakers and motor circuit protectors, which shall
be accessible from the front of the swing-out panel without opening
the swing-out panel. Provide the following:






A motor circuit protector for each pump
If the incoming power is 480 Volts AC or higher then use
a circuit breaker for a 480/120 Volt AC transformer, and
require a minimum 6-foot clearance.
Circuit breakers shall have minimum interrupting rating
of 25,000 Amperes.
Separate incoming terminals for control circuit panel
control power, pressure transducer power supply and
telemetry transceiver.

If the incoming power is 480 Volts AC or higher then use a
transformer to obtain 120 Volts AC power.



June 1, 2015

Transformer shall be high efficiency type, with 105 º C
temperature class, extra regulation and low losses.
Size transformer to feed all 120 Volts AC within the
enclosure +20%. Minimum size of the transformer shall
be 1.0 KVA.

20

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Provide conduit seal offs, a NEMA 7 junction box, and terminal
strips for all control wiring and power wiring entering and exiting
rated spaces.
Distribute 120 Volt AC power through single pole circuit breakers,
which shall have minimum interrupting rating of 10,000 Amperes.
Provide a circuit breaker for each of the following items:





Motor control circuit.
Panel light and thermostatically controlled enclosure
heater described above.
Convenience GFI receptacle.
Additional as specified on single line diagram.

Include a duplex convenience receptacle. Receptacles shall be 15
Ampere, Ground Fault Interrupting (GFI) non-feed through types.
Protect each motor power with magnetic only motor circuit
protector. Motor circuit protectors shall be as follows:




Size, voltage and configuration shall be as required.
Provided with adjustable instantaneous trips.
Minimum rating: 25,000 Amperes Interrupting Capacity
(AIC).

Provide each pump starter with the following:




A minimum of two sets of normally open starter
auxiliary contacts.
A minimum of two sets of normally closed starter
auxiliary contacts.
One set of normally open auxiliary overload alarm
contacts.

Provide terminal blocks, which shall be grouped together, for
remote control and monitoring wiring.
Provide all electro mechanical relays as necessary to achieve the
intended operation as described. Relays shall be plug-in ice-cube
style, 3PDT or 4PDT, with manual operator and indicator light.
Contacts shall be rated a minimum of 10 amps at 240 VAC.
Manufacturers shall be as listed below. Products of other
manufacturers assembled to provide all specified functions,
including reliability equal to or exceeding that of the manufacturers
listed below may be submitted for approval.


June 1, 2015

Circuit breakers and motor circuit protectors shall be
Square D or Eaton.
Pilot and control devices shall Allen-Bradley, or Square
D.
21

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

Pump station shall have either a permanent generator or a
generator receptacle with a service-rated manual transfer switch.
Generator receptacles shall be as follows:
•
•
•

100A – Arktite #AREA10426S22
200A – Arktite #AREA20427S22
400A – Arktite #AREX40428S22

All generator receptacles shall be male.
Manual transfer switch shall be double throw fused safety switch,
service rated, NEMA 3R enclosure. Approved manufacturers shall be
Square D, Siemens and Eaton Cutler-Hammer.
D. Pump Controller
The listed pump controller is only intended for a maximum of 3
pumps.
Use a microprocessor based, intelligent pump controller with preconfigured pump control logic and fault handling.


Provide pump control module and user interface model
#IO-3PC (MultiTrode).

Provide motor protection module, model #IO-3MP
(MultiTrode).
Standard functions: The pump controller shall be provided with preconfigured (default) parameters which are selectable via the user
interface keypad, including:












June 1, 2015

Set point adjustment for pump activation/deactivation
and level alarms.
Level device inputs: 4-20mA signal or (conductive) level
probe.
Redundant level device inputs.
Selectable between charge (fill) & discharge (empty).
Pump control of up to 3 pumps.
Pump grouping and alternation.
Station optimization including:
a. Maximum off time for any pump.
b. Maximum pumps to run simultaneously.
c. Maximum pump starts per hour.
d. Inter-pump start and stop delays.
e. Maximum run time for any pump.
f. Blocked pump detection.
Well washer control functions.
Well clean out (periodic pump down to off point).
Alternate profiles of level set points (Conditional pump
management).
Data logger functions.
22

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements








3-phase supply monitoring and supply protection
including:
a. Under-voltage.
b. Over-voltage .
c. Phase fail.
d. Phase rotation.
e. Monitoring of dc supply, battery voltage, and
internal temperature.
Additional Functions (Firmware Enabled):
a. Over current and under current detection.
b. Ground / earth fault.
c. Insulation resistance testing for motor windings.
d. KVA, kW and power factor measurement.
Calculated flow function.
Input/Output Description.

Available I/O types shall include:






Digital inputs (voltage free, discrete input).
Digital outputs (240V, 5A resistive).
Analog inputs (10bit) (4-20ma).
Analog outputs (10bit) (4-20ma).
Standard (Configurable) Digital Inputs:
a. Seal/Leakage sensor.
b. PTC Thermistor or other over temp device.
c. PT100.
d. ITT Xylem FLS Sensor.
e. Conductive probe (for liquid level sensing).

Motor Protection & Monitoring Inputs:
a. Insulation resistance test (IRT) to 1000v, 1
phase per pump.
b. 3-phase current monitoring.
c. 3-phase supply monitoring.
d. Three (3) current transformers (CTs) shall be
supplied and installed per pump. Each pump’s
full load amps (FLA) are to be taken into
consideration to obtain correct CT ratio.
User Interface:




June 1, 2015

The field hardware shall include a user interface for
operations and configuration. The display shall provide
status of the pump station, control of pumps, resetting
of faults and configuration of parameters.
The following parameters shall be displayed on the
main status screen:
a. Level.
b. Set points for alarms and pump start/stop.
c. Pump Running/Stopped.
d. Pump Available.
e. 3-phase current for each motor Pump faults.
23

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

f.

3-phase supply.

Provide access to Faults, History, Information and Settings.
The following information screens and parameters shall be available
via the keypad:
a. Elapsed Time accumulators for each pump &
the pump station.
b. Number of Starts accumulator for each pump &
the pump station.
c. Flow values, either derived from calculations or
via a flow meter, including inflow, pump flow
rate, total volume.
d. Overflow information, including start time,
duration, estimated volume.
e. Insulation resistance value for each motor.
f. Status of Inputs & Outputs.
The following control functions/devices shall be industrial grade oil
tight and watertight types. Each pump shall be provided with the
following controls (through the user-interface), which shall be
visible from the front of the swing-out panel, with the enclosure
door opened:
a. Pump mode for each pump, (Hand/Off/Auto) –
22.5-mm operator.
b. Pump fault reset.
c. Level alarm reset.
d. An amber “FAIL” pilot light.
e. An amber “SEAL FAILURE” pilot light.
f. A red motor ”RUN” pilot light.
g. A green motor “OFF” pilot light.
h. A “RESET” push button.
i. A non-resettable elapsed time meter.
j. A non-resettable elapsed time meter for when
both pumps operate simultaneously.
In addition to previously listed points to be indicated by the system
the following conditions shall also be indicated:
a. Communication Fail
b. Inflow Rate
c. Outflow Rate
d. Pump Run Status (all pumps)
e. Pump Failure (all pumps)
f. Power Failure
g. Volume Today
h. Volume Yesterday
i. Wet Well Level
j. Wet Well High Level
k. Personnel at Station
June 1, 2015

24

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

E. Communications
Complete telemetry systems include antenna mountings, panels,
and interfaces. All local codes relating to antenna height
requirements, aircraft flight paths, FAA code and other pertinent
issues must be adhered to. The system shall communicate with City
Utilities SCADA system via an MDS licensed frequency radio,
configured to coordinate with City Utilities’ system for remote
communications.
The pump controller shall include the following types of connection
ports:



Ethernet port up to 10Mbit/s.
(3) RS232 ports up to 115kBit/s.

The communication protocols supported shall be as follows:
MODBUS RTU, DNP3, MULTI (Multitrode Protocol)
F. Wiring
•
•
•

All wiring shall be stranded copper, minimum 12-gauge for
power wiring, 14-gauge for control wiring, THHN-THWN
type.
All conduit above grade and entering/exiting rated spaces
shall be pvc-coated rigid steel conduit.
Conduit below grade, not entering/exiting rated spaces shall
be Schedule 40 PVC non-metallic.

Seal-offs shall be provided for all conduits entering/exiting rated
spaces.

MA6.14 Force Main Appurtenances
This section covers water appurtenances, for potable water distribution
systems. Including:
• Buried Piping Identification
• Restraint Devices
• Fittings
1.

Buried Piping Identification
The following materials are used for identifying buried force mains.
Tracing wire is used on all force mains regardless of diameter.
A. Tracing Wire
Use # 10 or stronger High Strength, Copper Clad Steel Reinforced,
HDPE insulated tracing wire with 21% conductivity for locating
purposes and a minimum break load of 600lbs. Tracing wire
insulation shall be green.

June 1, 2015

25

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA6
Sanitary Sewer Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Waterproof Connection Device
Use a DRYCONN direct bury lug to connect mainline tracing wire to
service line tracing wire and splice tracing wire.
2.

Restraint Devices for PVC
For restraining force main joints use wedge action retainer glands that
are manufactured in accordance with AWWA C110 or AWWA C153. The
following types or approved equal are acceptable:
• EBBA Iron– MegaLug
• Romac – RomaGrip
• Sigma – One-Lok
• Stargrip – Series 3000
When force main diameter exceeds 16-inches, consult with City Utilities
for appropriate restraint devices.

3.

Restraint Devices for HDPE
Fused mechanical joint adaptors shall be used.
Thrust anchors or approved equal shall be used where the Poisson
effect is anticipated.

4.

Fittings
Fittings for force mains shall be ductile iron and conform to the
requirements listed in Figure MA6.15. Appropriate pressure rating,
gaskets, bolts, and nuts shall be used for joints. All valve bolts are to be
stainless steel.
Figure MA6.15 – Force Main Fittings

Fittings

Designation

Standard

AWWA C110

Compact

AWWA C153

Gaskets

AWWA C111

June 1, 2015

Coating

Lining

Asphaltic

Cement
Mortar
AWWA C104

26



 ======================== Evansville ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Evansville ======================== Republican ======================== 
 ======================== Evansville ======================== Republican ======================== 

WATER DEPARTMENT MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS

Revision Date: 10-26-16

Table of Contents
1.

SERVICE LINE MATERIALS...................................................................................................................... 4
A.

Tapping Saddles ................................................................................................................................ 4

B.

Corporation Stops ............................................................................................................................. 4

C.

Curb Stops ......................................................................................................................................... 4

D.

Copper Tubing ................................................................................................................................... 5

E.

Polyethylene Tubing ......................................................................................................................... 5

F.

Stop Box ............................................................................................................................................ 5

G.

Curb Stop Alignment Device/Enlarged Base ..................................................................................... 5

H.

Meter Pits .......................................................................................................................................... 6

I.

Meter Pit Collar and Lid .................................................................................................................... 6

J.

Meter Setters .................................................................................................................................... 7

K.

Brass Fittings – compression fittings – male & female adapters ...................................................... 7

L.

Inserts................................................................................................................................................ 7

2.

WATER LINE MATERIAL ......................................................................................................................... 8
M.

Tapping Sleeves............................................................................................................................. 8

N.

Tap Valves ......................................................................................................................................... 8

O.

Gate Valves ....................................................................................................................................... 9

P.

Fire Hydrants ................................................................................................................................... 10

Q.

PVC Pipe – Open Cut Installation .................................................................................................... 10

R.

Ductile Iron Pipe – Open Cut Installation........................................................................................ 11

S.

Restrained Joint Pipe – Installed by trenchless technology or within a casing .............................. 11

T.

Restraint Devices ............................................................................................................................ 12

U.

Ductile Iron Fittings ......................................................................................................................... 12

V.

Valve Boxes – Extensions- Risers – Lids .......................................................................................... 13

W.

Tracer Wire – Tracer Wire Connectors ....................................................................................... 13

X.

Anchor Couplings ............................................................................................................................ 13

Y.

Repair Couplings ............................................................................................................................. 14

Z.

Repair Clamps ................................................................................................................................. 14

AA.

Valve Box Alignment Device ....................................................................................................... 14

BB.

Automatic Flushing Device .......................................................................................................... 14

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 2

CC.

Casing .......................................................................................................................................... 14

DD.

Casing Spacers ............................................................................................................................. 15

EE.

End Seals ..................................................................................................................................... 15

FF.

Expansion Couplings ................................................................................................................... 15

GG.

Air and Vacuum (Combination) Valves and Vaults ..................................................................... 16

HH.

Bell Stop ...................................................................................................................................... 16

3.

OR EQUAL MATERIALS ........................................................................................................................ 16

4.

MATERIAL SUBMITTAL FOR APPROVAL FORM ................................................................................... 16

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 3

1. SERVICE LINE MATERIALS
ALL BRASS PRODUCTS INSTALLED AFTER OCTOBER 1, 2013 SHALL CONTAIN NO MORE THAN 0.25%
LEAD. BRASS PRODUCTS SHALL BE MARKED WITH THE “NL” DESIGNATION CLEARLY IDENTIFYING THE
PRODUCT AS NO-LEAD. ALL SERVICE LINE MATERIALS SHALL BE RATED FOR 150 PSI WORKING
PRESSURE.

A. Tapping Saddles
All tapping saddles must be bronze body with stainless steel bands. The bands shall be a minimum of 2
inches wide for ¾ inch and 1 inch saddles and a minimum of 5 ¼ inches wide for 2 inch and larger
saddles. The outlet of the saddle shall have corporation (CC) thread. All stainless steel bolts and nuts
shall have special lubricating molybdenum disulfide coating, such as “Never Gall”, on the entire surface
of the bolt and nut.
Mueller BR 1S Series and Mueller BR 2S Series
A.Y. McDonald Model 3835 or 3855
Ford 101BS and 202BS
Cambridge Brass Series 822 and Series 812
Accepted for use on 16” and larger water mains
Romac Industries Inc. Model#202 NS

B. Corporation Stops
All 3/4 inch and 1 inch corporation stops shall be corporation (CC) thread by pack joint with an external
set screw. All 2 inch corporation stops shall be corporation thread by male iron pipe thread. All corp
stops shall be ball valve style with 360 degree rotation.
Mueller ball style CC x pack joint for ¾ and 1 inch
Mueller ball style CC x MIP for 2 inch
Ford Ballcorp FB1000 style CC x pack joint for ¾ and 1 inch
Ford Ballcorp FB1000 style CC x MIP for 2 inch
A.Y. McDonald ball style CC x pack joint for ¾ and 1 inch
A.Y. McDonald ball style CC x MIP for 2 inch
Cambridge Brass ball style CC x CTS for ¾ and 1 inch
Cambridge Brass ball style CC x MIP 3011-A7M7 for 2 inch

C. Curb Stops
All curb stops shall be ball style with full 360 degree rotation. All ¾ and 1 inch curb stops shall have pack
joint inlets with external set screws. The ¾ and 1 inch curb stops may have pack joint, MIP, or FIP
outlets depending upon the use. 2 inch curb stops shall have a MIP inlet and may have pack joint, MIP,
or FIP outlets depending upon the use.
Mueller ball style curb stop P-25172-3
A.Y. McDonald ball style
Ford ball valve curb stop B-44-R Style
Cambridge Brass
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 4

D. Copper Tubing
All service line material for ¾ and 1 inch shall be Type K copper.
United Steel
Kessler
KobeWieland Copper Products
Cerro Flow Products, Inc.
Cambridge-Lee Industries, LLC
Wieland Copper products
Mueller

E. Polyethylene Tubing
All service line material for 2 inch shall be DR 9 HDPE.
Cresline
Hancor
ADS
Endot Industries, Inc.

F. Stop Box
Curb boxes shall be of the extension type. Each curb box shall be complete with foot piece, curb box
and lid. If a stop box is used on a 2” curb stop, an enlarged base must be used and a top half of a valve
box with a valve box lid will be installed over the stop box. Materials must be shipped in crate. Repair
lids shall ship in boxes containing 10 lids.
Tyler 93D 6500 domestic or non-domestic
Sigma VB 93-D
Trumball Repair Lids T374
Bingham & Taylor Repair Lids 10374
Mueller Repair Lids H-10374

G. Curb Stop Alignment Device/Enlarged Base
All ¾ and 1” curb stops shall require a curb stop alignment device. All 2” curb stops shall require an
enlarged base.
¾” – EMMA Sales VKAD034
1” – EMMA Sales VKAD100
2” – Tyler Union 6500
2” – Sigma VB 7965

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 5

H. Meter Pits
All ¾” and 1” meter pits shall be heavy wall bullet style only. 2” meter pits shall be manufactured of
galvanized steel when used in traffic areas but may be HDPE or galvanized steel in non-traffic areas.
¾” and 1” – Oldcastle Precast 20x24x24
¾” and 1” – Carson Bullet Style 20x24x24
2” Galvanized – Contech Construction Products, Inc.
2” HDPE – non-traffic area only
DFW Industries
Francesville HDPE corrugated
Prinsco Goldflo

I. Meter Pit Collar and Lid
All ¾” and 1” meter pits shall have a 20” cast-iron collar and lid. The hold-down bolt shall have a 1 1/32”
head. The 2” meter pits shall have either a 30” aluminum collar and lid for non-traffic applications or a
cast-iron frame and lid for traffic areas. All lids shall have a 1 7/8” hole for the touch pad. Meter pits
that have a compound meter with dual registers shall have two – 1 7/8” holes for the touch pads. The
area surrounding the touch pad holes shall be flat without raised lettering so that the touch pad tightens
down firmly to the surface of the lid.
2” non-traffic – Castings Inc. MH-150-24-AL
2” traffic rated – East Jordan Iron Works spring assisted
20” collar and lid –
Vestal
Tyler
Ford
Sigma
East Jordan
Mueller

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 6

J. Meter Setters
All 5/8” x ¾”, ¾”, and 1” setters shall be copper tube size and shall have an angle valve on the inlet riser.
2” setters shall have dual angle valves with a lockable high bypass. Connectors must be assembled with
setter on delivery. All brass fittings with pack-joint ends shall have external set screws.
Mueller B-2404 (3/4" and 1") B-2423-2-99000 (2")
Ford 70 series Coppersetter
5/8" X 3/4" =V72-xxW-11-xx style
3/4" x ¾” =V73-xxW-11-xx style
1"
= V74-xxW-11-44 style
2"
=V77-xxHB-11-77 style
Cambridge Brass Series 6020
A.Y. McDonald
5/8” x ¾” Meter Setter 20-207WXDD 33
¾” x ¾”
Meter Setter 20-307WXDD 33
¾” x ¾”
NL Meter Setter 722-207WX22 33
1” Meter Setter
20-410WXDD 44
2" Meter Setter
4136-214

K. Brass Fittings – compression fittings – male & female adapters
All brass fittings with pack-joint ends shall have external set screws.
Mueller
A.Y. McDonald
Ford
Cambridge Brass

L. Inserts
All 2 inch HDPE tubing shall have stainless steel inserts placed inside the tubing at every connection to a
fitting.
Mueller
A.Y. McDonald
Ford
Cambridge Brass

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 7

2. WATER LINE MATERIAL
M. Tapping Sleeves
Tapping Sleeves shall be constructed of Grade 18-8, Type 304 stainless steel with stainless steel drop-in
bolts with heavy stainless steel hex nuts. The heavy hex stainless steel nuts must have special
lubricating molybdenum disulfide coating, such as “Never Gall”, on the entire surface of the bolt and
nut.
The Tapping Sleeve shall be furnished with a griddled rubber gasket consisting of SAR compound for
water service meeting ASTM D2000 80M4AA607. The gasket must provide 360 degree circumferential
support and have 16 gauge stainless steel armors, a minimum of 2.25 inches wide, molded in place to
span the gap between the two tapping sleeve sections.
The Tapping Sleeve shall be furnished with a 3/4" test port positioned top dead center with a stainless
steel square head plug for easy use. The stainless steel flange must be recessed to accept standard
tapping valves. The Tapping Sleeve shall be rated for a 200 psi working pressure and a 225 psi test
pressure.
All stainless steel welds used in the construction of the sleeve shall conform to AS Codes and shall be
passivated in order to return the surrounding stainless steel material to its original corrosive resistant
condition. The flange outlet section shall be doubled welded, inside and out, to provide maximum
strength.
Romac Industries, Inc. (SSTIII) all SS w/ SS removable bolts
Ford (must be all SS w/ SS removable bolts)
JCM 432 all SS w/ SS removable bolts
Smith-Blair Stainless Steel Tapping Sleeve # 665 w/ SS removable bolts

N. Tap Valves
All valves and parts shall be made and assembled in the continental United States. Tapping valves shall
meet ANSI/AWWA C515 and have flange mechanical joint ends Flange dimensions and drilling shall
meet the requirements of ANSI B16.1. Nuts, bolts, and gaskets for flange joints shall meet the
requirements of ANSI/AWWA C515. Nuts and bolts shall be 304 stainless steel, and gaskets shall be
rubber and must meet EWSU material specifications. Mechanical joints and accessories shall meet the
requirements of ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11. A full nominal diameter cutter shall be used for tapping.
Mueller C515 Ductile iron body tapping valves with SS hardware MJ X FL
Kennedy C-515 KS-RW SS 7590SS with SS hardware MJ X FL
Clow DI C-515 Model
M&H C-515 DI Resilient Wedge tapping valves 7590
American Flow Control Series 2500-1 Resilient wedge tapping valve C-515
J & S Valve Series 6900.5 AWWA C515
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 8

O. Gate Valves
All valves and parts shall be made and assembled in the continental United States. Buried gate valves 4inches and larger shall have iron body, non-rising stem gate, and resilient wedges. Valves shall meet the
requirements of ANSI/AWWA C515 and have mechanical joint ends. Mechanical joints and joint
accessories shall comply with ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11. Valves shall be constructed to open right
(clockwise) and shall have a two-inch (2") square operating nut. Valves shall include the following
features:
a. The thrust ring on the stem shall be properly and adequately bushed.
b. The thrust ring shall be an integral part of the stems.
c. All valves shall have full pipe size openings through the seat ring.
d. All valves shall be furnished with mechanical joint accessories including bolts, glands, and
gaskets. Bolts and nuts shall be made of cast iron (Corten or equal).
e. The operating nut of an open right valve shall be painted red.
f. All test plugs shall be solid brass or stainless steel.
g. All packing gland or bonnet bolts and nuts must be made of 304 stainless steel
Gate valves 4-inches and larger installed above ground or in structures shall be ductile iron body. Valves
shall correspond to ANSI/AWWA C515. Outside screw and yoke gate valves shall have flange joint ends
and malleable iron handwheels. Flange joints and accessories shall be as specified in ANSI/AWWA C515.
Bolts and nuts must be made of 304 stainless steel. Gaskets shall be full face and rubber and must
conform to EWSU material specifications.
No gate valves smaller than 4-inch will be installed.
Mueller 2360 Series T-2360-20
Kennedy Gate Valve C-515 KS-RW All packing gland or bonnet bolts and nuts must be made of
stainless steel
American Flow Control Series 2500-1 Resilient wedge gate valve C-515 (All packing gland or
bonnet bolts and nuts must be made of stainless steel.)
Clow Model 2638
M&H C-515 DI Resilient Wedge gate valves 7571. All packing gland or bonnet bolts and nuts
must be made of stainless steel.
J & S Valve Series 6900.5 AWWA C515

Knife Valves
Red Valve Series G Knife Gate Valve
Valtorc Series 5000 Ductile Iron Body

Air Release /Vacuum Valves
ARI Valve – D040
Eaton Pipe Riser Clamp with lugs 2 Bolt B3132W

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 9

P. Fire Hydrants
Fire hydrants shall be domestically produced, a dry-barrel, compression shutoff, traffic model design and
shall comply with ANSI/AWWA C502. Main valve size shall be 5-1/4 inch. Inlets shall be 6-inch
mechanical joint. Each hydrant shall have two 2-1/2-inch nozzles and one 5 inch factory installed Storz
connection. The hydrant shall have a positive non-corrodible type bronze lined drain valve. When the
hydrant is open the drip valve will close the drain and when the hydrant is closed the drain will open.
The operating nut as well as the two – 2 ½ caps shall have a 1 ½ inch pentagonal nut. The two 2 ½ inch
caps shall not have chains attached. The 5 inch Storz cap shall have a jacketed stainless steel cable
attaching the cap to the main body of the hydrant. All hydrants shall be open right. Each hydrant shall
be the proper bury depth for the water main to which the hydrant is connected. Hydrants shall be
furnished with mechanical joint accessories including bolts, glands and gaskets. Bolts and nuts shall be
Corten or equal. The hydrant valve shall be epoxy coated with a minimum of 9 mils. Fire hydrant coating
shall meet the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C502. Fire hydrant bodies will be painted school bus
yellow with bonnet colors to vary depending on the size of water main supplying the hydrant. Hydrants
supplied by a 4 inch main shall have a red bonnet. Hydrants supplied by a 6 inch main shall have a green
bonnet. Hydrants supplied by an 8 inch or larger main shall have the bonnet painted yellow to match the
body. There shall be one hydrant wrench, equipped to fit the specified operating nut size, supplied with
every five hydrants.
Mueller Super Centurion
Kennedy Guardian K81D
Clow Medallion
AVK
American Flow Control Waterous Pacer (must have 16" top barrel)

Q. PVC Pipe – Open Cut Installation
For open-cut installations (unless otherwise indicated), pipe with a nominal diameter 12" or less shall
conform to AWWA C-900, DR18 or AWWA C-909. The material used also shall conform to ASTM D1784,
Class 12454-B (PVC 1120). Pipe with a nominal diameter of 16” shall conform to AWWA C-905. , joints
shall be composed of elastomeric gasket joints and shall be in accordance with the requirements of
ASTM D3139. Joints shall be bell and spigot end, mechanical joint or coupling push-on type. Joints shall
be designed so as to provide for the thermal expansion and contraction experienced with a total
temperature change of 75 degrees F° at each joint. Details of the joint design and assembly shall be in
accordance with joint manufacturer's standard practice. Gaskets shall be in accordance with the
requirements of ASTM F477 and ANSI A-21.11. Joint lubricant shall have no deteriorating effects on the
gasket or the pipe. The lubricant containers shall be labeled with manufacturer's name.
North American Pipe Corporation
Diamond Pipe
PW Eagle Vynyl-Lock
JM Eagle
National Pipe & Plastics
Northern Pipe Products, Inc.
Pipelife Jetstream Inc.
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 10

Sanderson Pipe Corp
Vinylplex

R. Ductile Iron Pipe – Open Cut Installation
Ductile iron pipe shall be domestically produced and shall meet the requirements of ANSI/AWWA
C151/A21.51. Design and manufacture pipe for the pressure class listed plus 100 psi surge pressure.
Additionally, a safety factor of 2.0 and a depth of cover indicated on the drawings or as required by the
manufacturers and ANSI/AWWA specifications, shall be included. Ductile iron pipe shall be pressure
class 350. All ductile iron pipes shall have cement-lining in accordance with ANSI/AWWA C104/A21.4.
All ductile iron must be encased in V-BIO enhanced polyethene with a minimum thickness of 8 mils in
accordance with the AWWA C105 standard for corrosion protection of Ductile Iron pipe. Gaskets for
mechanical joints and push-on joints shall meet the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.
Joints shall be compression type push-on joints, Type P0J-1, single gasket type conforming to ANSI
A21.11 "Rubber Gasket Joints for Cast Iron Pressure Pipe and Fittings". The bell shall have cast or
machined gasket socket recesses, a tapered annular opening and flared socket design to provide
deflections up to maximum of 5 degrees. Plain spigot ends shall be suitably beveled to permit easy
entry into bell, centering in gasket and compression of the gasket. The joint shall be liquid tight under
all pressure ranges from vacuum up to 350 psi. Sufficient lubricant shall be furnished to provide a thin
coat on each spigot end. The lubricant shall be non-toxic, shall impart no taste or odor to conveyed
liquid, and shall have no deleterious effect on the rubber gasket. The lubricant shall be of such
consistency that it can be easily applied to the pipe in hot and cold weather and shall adhere to either
wet or dry pipe.
U.S. Pipe and Foundry Co.
American
Clow
Griffin
McWane

S. Restrained Joint Pipe – Installed by trenchless technology or within a
casing
All PVC and Ductile-Iron pipe installed by directional drilling, pipe-bursting, or other trenchless methods
and pipe installed within a casing shall meet the same standards and specifications as open-cut
installation pipe with the additional requirement of restrained joints. The restrained joint can be
integrally part of the pipe or it can be a restrained joint coupling that attaches two pipes together.
Certain Teed Certa-Lok
EAGLE LOC 900
Griffin Pipe DI Bolt-Lok
Griffin Pipe DI MECH-LOK
Griffin Pipe SNAP-LOK
Diamond Lok – 21
U.S. Pipe and Foundry Co.
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 11

American
McWane

T. Restraint Devices
All restraint devices shall be domestic only. Mechanical joint restraint shall be incorporated in the
design of the follower gland. The restraint mechanism shall consist of a plurality of individually activated
gripping surfaces to maximize restraint capability. Glands shall be manufactured of ductile iron
conforming to ASTM A536-80. The gland shall be such that it can replace the standardized mechanical
joint gland and can be used with the standardized mechanical joint bell conforming to ANSI/AWWA
A21.11/C111 and ANSI/AWWA A21.53/C153 of latest revision. Torque actuated twist off nuts, sized
same as tee-head bolts, shall be used to insure proper actuating of restraining devices.
Ebaa Iron, Inc. Megalug Series 1100 for Ductile Iron
Ebaa Iron, Inc. Megalug Series 2000PV for PVC
Ebaa Iron, Inc. Megalug Series 1500TD for C-900 and Ductile Iron Bell joint restraint
Ebaa Iron, Inc. Megalug Series 2800 for C-905 bell joint restraint
Sigma Domestic One-Lok D-SLDE for ductile iron
Sigma Domestic One-Lock D-SLCE for PVC
Ford Meter Box
Star Domestic Stargrip Series 4000 for PVC
Star Domestic Stargrip Series 3000 for Ductile Iron
Tyler Union Domestic Series 1000 for Ductile Iron
Tyler Union Domestic Series 2000 for PVC

U. Ductile Iron Fittings
All fittings shall be domestically produced mechanical joint ductile iron fittings meeting all applicable
requirements of ANSI/AWWA-C110/A21.10 or ANSI/AWWA-C153/A21.53 specifications. All fittings shall
be cement mortar lined and bituminous or epoxy-coated meeting ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10
specifications. All fittings shall have a minimum pressure rating of 150 psi. All joints shall conform to
AWWA C111 or AWWA C115 as appropriate.
Fitting joints shall be mechanical joints or restrained push-on joints. Joints shall meet the requirements
of ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11. Restrain all mechanical joints as indicated on the drawings or as required
by the manufacturer's recommendations and ANSI/AWWA specifications. Pipe connecting to restrained
joint fittings shall be restrained as indicated on the drawings or as required by the manufacturer's
recommendations and ANSI/AWWA specifications
Star Ductile Iron Compact Fittings
Tyler Union MJ C153 Ductile Iron Compact fittings
Sigma C153 MJ Ductile iron Fittings (domestic or non-domestic accepted)
Krausz Hymax Grip End Cap

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 12

V. Valve Boxes – Extensions- Risers – Lids
Valve boxes for butterfly valves and gate valves shall be heavy duty cast iron cast domestically in the US.
Valve boxes shall be two piece or three piece type. Each two piece box shall be complete with bottom
section, top section and cover. Each three piece box shall be complete with base, center section, top
section and cover. Valve boxes shall be extension type with slide or screw type adjustment. Each base
and bottom section shall be the proper size for the valve served. Each valve box assembly shall be the
proper length for the valve served. The minimum thickness of metal shall be 3/16-inch. The minimum
thickness of the top half where the box receives the lid shall be 11/16-inch. Cast the word "WATER" in
each valve box cover. All valve box covers shall be heavy duty with a minimum weight of 12 pounds. All
valve box covers shall be manufactured by the same company as the valve box and shall be cast
domestically in the US. All valve boxes shall be installed with a valve box alignment device properly sized
to fit the corresponding valve.
Tyler Union Domestic Only

W. Tracer Wire – Tracer Wire Connectors
Tracer wire shall be Polyethylene insulated for underground service, solid copper or copper clad steel.
Wire insulation shall be highly resistant to alkalis, acid and other destructive agents found in soil.
Location wire for PVC pipe shall be 12 AWG – Solid Core RHW or RHH underground copper cable.
Location wire for open cut applications may also use the same wire required for directional drilling
applications. Location wire used in directional drilling applications shall be 12 AWG-Solid CCS Directional
Drill Tracer Wire, 45 MIL HDPE, 30 Volt, Direct Burial Only Wire. Directional Drill Tracer Wire shall be
extra high strength with a minimum break load of 1150 pounds. Tracer wire shall be contiguous without
splices throughout the directional drill path. Tracer wire shall be installed on pipeline installations and
shall be taped to the top of the pipe. Tracer wire shall come up and be accessible in every valve box and
shall have enough excess so that it extends 3 feet above grade. The wire shall be located on the exterior
of the bottom half of the valve box and then protrude through the two halves so that it is located on the
interior of the top half.
Copperhead EHS (Extra High Strength for Directional drilling)
Copperhead 12GA. solid core copper HDPE coating for open cut
Copperhead locking Snakebite Twist Lock connectors
Copperhead DryConn Direct Bury Lug connectors
Agave Wire LTD. Extra high strength bore through tracer wire
Pro-Pak Pro-Trace 12 GA 45 mil drilling tracer wire

X. Anchor Couplings
Swivel x Swivel Anchor Couplings shall be domestically manufactured from ductile iron in accordance
with and meet all applicable terms and provisions of standards ANSI/AWWA C153/A21.53. Ductile iron
fittings shall be rated for 350 psi working pressure. Fittings shall be bituminous coated and cement
lined.
Tyler
Fast Fabricators USA
Star
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 13

Sigma
Foundry Services

Y. Repair Couplings
Couplings shall be epoxy coated steel bodies with 304 stainless steel hardware. The 304 stainless bolt
and nut shall have a molybdenum disulfide coating attached to the complete surface, such as “Never
Gall”.
Hymax
Smith-Blair Top Bolt

Z. Repair Clamps
All repair clamps must be all stainless steel with stainless steel lugs or ductile iron lugs and must have 3
drop-in stainless steel removable bolts and nuts with 1” longer starter bolt in center of clamp. Clamps
sized 2 inch through 12 inch must be one-piece design. The heavy hex stainless steel bolts and nuts
must have special lubricating molybdenum disulfide coating, such as “Never Gall”, on the entire surface
of the bolt and nut.
Mueller
Romac SL1
Smith-Blair 256
JCM 131
Ford FLS Style
TPS EZ-Max Style

AA.

Valve Box Alignment Device

A valve box alignment device shall be installed on every valve installed in the Evansville system. It shall
be sized according the valve it is installed on.
EMMA Sales box-lok

BB.

Automatic Flushing Device

Kupferle Foundry 9400 Eclipse for open atmosphere discharge
Kupferle Foundry 9800 Eclipse for underground discharge

CC.

Casing

Casing pipe shall be bituminous coated steel pipe with a minimum wall thickness of 0.375 inches and
shall be capable of withstanding traffic or the loads of pavement, subgrade and traffic, where applicable.
The casing pipe and joints shall be constructed to prevent leakage of any matter from the casing or
conduit throughout its entire length.
Casing pipe used for railroad crossings shall meet the minimum standards set forth by the railroad
involved.
EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 14

DD.

Casing Spacers

Casing spacers shall be made of T-304 stainless steel of a minimum thickness of 14 gauge. Each shell
section shall be a minimum of 12” wide and shall be assembled with stainless steel bolts and nuts. The
shell shall be lined with a ribbed PC extrusion with a retaining section that overlaps the edges of the
shell and prevents slippage. Bearing surfaces (runners) shall be ultra-high molecular weight polymer for
high abrasion resistance and a low coefficient of friction. The runners shall be attached to support
structures at appropriate positions to properly support the carrier within the casing and to ease
installation. The runners shall be attached to the stainless steel risers with stainless steel hardware. All
welds and metal surfaces shall be chemically passivated. The risers shall be sized such that the carrier
pipe is nearly centered within the casing upon installation. designed Spacers shall be installed no more
than 2 feet from the end of the casing and shall be spaced a minimum of 10 foot on center with a spacer
near the center of each pipe and near the bell of each pipe.
Cascade Waterworks Manufacturing model CCS

EE.

End Seals

Mechanical seals shall be used to seal the annular space between the casing and carrier pipe. Seal
elements shall be made of EPDM, and pressure plates shall be made of reinforced nylon polymer. All
hardware shall be made of 316 stainless steel per ASTM F-593. Coloration shall be throughout elastomer
for positive field inspection.
Link-Seal

FF.

Expansion Couplings

Expansions Joints shall be manufactured of ductile iron conforming to applicable requirements of
ANSI/.AWWA C153/A21.53 with mechanical joint ends. The Expansions Joint shall be tested against its
own restrain to a minimum pressure of 350 psi. Pressure-containing parts shall be lined with a minimum
coating of 15 mils of fusion bonded epoxy conforming to ANSI/AWWA C213. Joint restraints shall be
installed on all mechanical joint connections.
Ebaa Iron Works Ex-Tend or Flex-Tend depending on application

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 15

GG.

Air and Vacuum (Combination) Valves and Vaults

Air and vacuum valve shall be constructed of ductile iron per ASTM A536 Grade 65-45-12 and shall have
stainless steel hardware. Size of valve shall be sized by engineer.
Air and vacuum valve vaults for 2” and smaller air and vacuum valves shall be 24 inch diameter concrete
set atop a minimum of 18” of open grade stone to allow for adequate drainage. The frame and cover
shall be a Neenah R-1915 series with the word “water” cast in the cover. Air and vacuum valve vaults
for valves larger than 2” shall be 48” precast manhole barrels set atop a minimum of 24” of open grade
stone to allow for adequate drainage. The manhole barrel shall have a precast reducing lid with a 24’
diameter hole. The frame and cover shall be a Neenah R-1915 series with the word “water” cast in the
cover. The lids shall be set flush with grade and shall be placed in such a location that allows for positive
drainage away from the lid.
Val-Matic Valve and Manufacturing Corp. model 200 series single body combination air valve

HH.

Bell Stop

Bell Stop shall be constructed of cast ductile iron per ASTM A536 and shall offer 360o contact and
support of the pipe wall with an epoxy finish. Bell stop shall include a compression ring of SBR Rubber
per ASTM D2000 and shall prevent over-insertion of the spigot end of the pipe into the bell while
allowing for expansion and contraction.
Ford Meter Box Bell Stop 4” – 12”

3. OR EQUAL MATERIALS
The Utility shall reserve the right to modify these specifications at any time. Materials, make, and model
numbers may be added, modified, or deleted from these specifications. The Utility will consider
approved equal items where applicable. For a part to be considered equal and approved for use within
the Evansville Water Distribution System, a Material Submittal for Approval Form shall be submitted to
the Utility along with a representative sample of the part and factory submittal information. The
submittal must be approved before the part is used in the Evansville Water Distribution System.

4. MATERIAL SUBMITTAL FOR APPROVAL FORM
Attached

EWSU

Water Material Specifications

Page 16



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY UTILITIES
DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
Book 5
Materials (MA)
MA5 Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements
June 2015

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

MA5.01 Purpose
This Chapter covers typical materials used for stormwater projects.

MA5.02 Allowable Pipe Materials and Testing Requirements
Figure MA5.1 summarizes pipe materials used for gravity storm sewer
installations and is to be used as a reference for acceptable storm sewer pipe
materials. The following sections in this chapter provide detailed
requirements for each pipe material.

Pipe Material
Reinforced
Concrete(RCP)

Figure MA5.1 Allowable Pipe Materials Summary
1
Sizes (Diameter, in.)
Min.
Bedding
ASTM Standard Cover Minimum- Minimum- Maximum
Requirements
(ft)
Private
Public
ASTM C76
ASTM C507
ASTM C506
ASTM C1577
ASTM C1504

<3

8

12

144

Ductile Iron
(DIP)

AWWA C151

8

12

64

Polyvinyl
Chloride(PVC)

ASTM D3034
ASTM F679

8

12

48

ASTM F949

High Density
Polyethylene
(HDPE)

ASTM F2306
ASTM F2648

Dual Wall
Corrugated
Polypropylene
(PP)
Pipe
Underdrains
Utility Trench
Drains

33 05 34.13

33 05 33

33 05 37.13

Profile Wall
Polyvinyl
Chloride

Corrugated
Metal (CMP)

Rigid
Detail - BS-4

Master
Spec
Number

3

ASTM A760
ASTM A762
ASTM B745
ASTM A761
ASTM B746

8

12

36

8

12

36

8

12

144

12

ASTM F2736

Flexible
Detail - BS-5

33 05 38.13

33 05 41

30
33 05 51

36

ASTM F2881

48

ASTM F2648
(HDPE)
ASTM F949 (PVC)

-

4

6

-

-

33 46 16.19

-

-

-

-

Concrete
Encased

33 44 16

-

Note: 1 - Minimum cover from finished grade to top of pipe (O.D), at completion of all project restoration.

June 1, 2015

1

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

1. Pipe Testing Requirements
The following subsections include quality assurance and quality control
requirements for the pipe material listed in this chapter.
2.

Quality Assurance
A. Manufacturers Qualifications

Pipe manufacturers shall have a minimum of 5 years of
successful experience producing specified pipe and
fittings, and must document their success by showing
evidence of at least 5 installations in satisfactory
operation within the United States.

Concrete pipe and fittings shall be from a source listed
in the most recent INDOT list of Certified Precast
Concrete Producers, in accordance with ITM 813.
B. Supply and Compatibility

Pipe, fittings and appurtenances shall be suitable for the
specified service and integrated into the overall piping
system by the pipe supplier.

3.

Field Quality Control
This section covers pipe-testing requirements after installation of the
pipe. The following testing is required for stormwater projects:



Vertical Deflection Test (Mandrel Test) for Flexible Pipe
Televised Inspections (for public projects)

The following testing for stormwater pipe is used based on project
specific requirements:




Low Pressure Air Test
Hydrostatic Test
Large Diameter Pipe Joint Test

A. Vertical Deflection Test (Mandrel Test) for Flexible Pipe
1. Conduct vertical deflection tests not less than 30 days after the
installation of the pipe, bedding and backfill.
2. Testing is conducted on all pipe runs (defined as length of
continuous pipe from structure to structure) containing 3 or
more pipe-to-pipe joints.
3. A rigid ball or mandrel that has a diameter of at least 95%
percent of the base inside diameter or average inside diameter
of piping is used to test the deflection of the piping. The ball
diameter depends on which is specified in applicable ASTM
standard, including the appendix, to which the pipe is
manufactured.
4. The test is performed without mechanical pulling devices.
5. Pipe segments that exceed a deflection of 5% are not
acceptable and must be replaced/repaired, in compliance with
City Utilities Engineering standards.

June 1, 2015

2

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Televised Inspection for All Pipe Materials
1. Televise completed sewer and appurtenant structures,
including manholes and chambers, and provide to City Utilities
Engineering a copy of the video on digital video disc (DVD) or
portable storage device. Software shall be compatible with
Pipelogics version 6.0 software.
2. Inspection shall be performed by a subcontractor certified in
Pipeline Assessment Certification Program (PACP) by National
Association of Sewer Service Companies (NASSCO). Provide
copy of PACP certification prior to starting inspection.
3. Televising shall conform to coding and reporting standards and
guidelines specified in PACP. Identify report annotations, pipe
conditions, and pipe defects in accordance with PACP. Severity
ratings shall be calculated in accordance with PACP.
4. Camera for main line shall be pan-and-tilt, radial viewing, pipe
inspection camera that pans plus-or-minus 275˚and rotates
360˚. Use camera with an accurate footage counter that
displays on television monitor exact distance of camera from
centerline of starting manhole. Use camera with height
adjustment so that lens is always centered at one-half inside
diameter or higher, in pipe being televised. Provide lighting
system that allows features and condition of pipe to be clearly
seen. Camera shall operate in 100% humidity. Camera,
television monitor, and other components of video system
must produce a minimum 450-line resolution colored video
picture. Picture quality and definition shall be satisfactory to
City Utilities Engineering.
5. Repair apparent leaks in a manner satisfactory to City Utilities
Engineering without additional cost to City Utilities and retelevise the pipe.
C. Low Pressure Air Test for Gravity Storm Sewers:

1.
2.

3.

4.
5.

June 1, 2015


DIP (for diameters ≤ 36-inches)

PVC

HDPE
Plug and bulkhead ends of pipe segment to be tested.
One plug shall have an orifice to pass air and a second orifice
shall be continuously connected to a pressure gauge having a
range from 0 to 10 psi, minimum divisions of 0.10 psi, and
accuracy of 0.04+/- psi.
The air supply line shall have a positive on-off valve and
suitable means for readily disconnecting from the control
panel.
The section of pipe shall be pressurized to approximately 4 psi.
The air shall be shut off and allowed to stabilize for a minimum
of 2 minutes. If during this time the pressure drops below 3.5
psi, more air shall be added to raise pressure to a minimum of
3.5 psi.
3

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

6. After the air has stabilized, the air line shall be disconnected
and timing will begin.
7. The time of test in minutes will be equivalent to one-half of the
nominal diameter of the pipe being tested.
8. The maximum allowable pressure drop during the specified
time period will be 1.0 psi.
D. Hydrostatic Testing for:





DI Pressure (AWWA Manual M41)
PVC Pressure Pipe (AWWA Standard C605)
HDPE Pressure Pipe (ASTM F2164)
Concrete Pressure Pipe (AWWA M9)

1. Preparation for Testing:


Follow appropriate preparation for testing as specified in
the manuals above for specified pipe material.



Prior to testing the contractor shall ensure that the line is
clean and free of dirt and debris.



Prior to testing, ensure that adequate thrust protection is in
place and joints are properly installed.



Prior to testing, install test riser and ensure equipment is
properly calibrated.

2. Test Procedure for DIP and PVC Pressure Pipe:

June 1, 2015



Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge
pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length
per second in pipe being tested.



Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval of City
Utilities Engineering prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.



Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to
eliminate visible leakage.



Add fluid as required to pressurize line to 150psi or
otherwise specified test pressure. Maintain test pressure
for a stabilization period of ten minutes before beginning
test.



Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been
filled, air has been expelled, and pressure stabilized.



Timed Test Period: After stabilization period, maintain test
pressure for at least two hours. During timed testing
period, add fluid as required to maintain pressure within
five psig of required test pressure.



Pump from test container to maintain test pressure.
Measure volume of water pumped from test container and

4

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements
record on test report. Record pressure at test pump at 15
minute intervals for duration of test.



Results of the test shall be logged using the inspection form
provided in Exhibit MA6-1.

3. Test Procedure for HDPE Pressure Pipe:


Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge
pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length
per second in pipe being tested.



Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval of City
Utilities Engineering prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.



Examine exposed joints and valves, and make repairs to
eliminate visible leakage.



The test section and the test liquid shall be allowed to
equalize to a common temperature.



After filling pipeline and purging air, gradually pressurize
pipe to 150 psi or otherwise specified test pressure and
maintain required test pressure for 4 hours for pipe to
expand. During expansion, add fluid to maintain required
test pressure. Begin timed test period after expansion
period and other requirements are met.



Timed test period shall not begin until after pipe has been
filled, exposed to required wetting period, air has been
expelled, and pressure stabilized.



Timed Test Period: After 4-hour expansion phase, reduce
test pressure by 10 psig and do not add liquid. Test
pressure shall then remain steady for 1 hour, indicating no
leakage.



If no visible leakage is observed and pressure remains
within 5% of the original test pressure for 1 hour, a passing
test is indicated.



Results of the test shall be logged using the inspection form
provided in Exhibit MA6-2.

4. Test Procedure for Concrete Pressure Pipe

June 1, 2015



Fill pipeline slowly to minimize air entrapment and surge
pressures. Fill rate shall not exceed one foot of pipe length
per second in pipe being tested.



Expel air from pipe as required. Obtain approval of City
Utilities Engineering prior to tapping pipe for expelling air.



After filling the pipe allow for a 48-hour momentum wetting
period to saturate the concrete lining.

5

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials


Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Bring the pipeline to 120% of the working pressure, and
maintain, within 5 psig, the pressure for the test duration of
a minimum of 2 hours.

5. Makeup Water Allowances:


The allowable makeup water allowance is the maximum
amount of water that is added into a pipeline undergoing
hydrostatic pressure testing. The allowable leakage rates for
the various pipe materials and joints are listed below.



Pipes with flanged, welded, or fused joints




No addition of makeup water

Allowance rates for DIP and PVC pipes joined with rubber
gaskets as sealing members include the following joint
types; bell and spigot, push on, mechanical, bolted sleeve
type couplings, grooved and shouldered couplings


Calculate makeup water rates using the following
equation.

𝑄=

𝐿𝐷√𝑃
148,000

Where:
Q = quantity of makeup water (gph)
L = length of pipe section being tested (ft)
D = nominal diameter of the pipe (in)
P = average test pressure during the hydrostatic
test (psigauge)


Figure MA5.2 represents the calculated values of rates
per 1,000 feet of pipe at the 150 psi test pressure.

Figure MA5.2 Allowable Testing Allowance for DIP and PVC Pipe (per 1,000’ of pipeline at 150 psi)

June 1, 2015

Nominal Pipe Diameter (in)

Testing Allowance (gph)

4
6
8
10
12
16
20
24
30
36
42
48
54
60

0.33
0.50
0.66
0.83
0.99
1.32
1.66
1.99
2.48
2.98
3.48
3.97
4.47
4.97
6

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Note: Table is an excerpt from AWWA M41 and AWWA C605.



Allowance rates for Concrete Pressure Pipe conform to
Figure MA5.3.

Figure MA5.3 Allowable Testing Allowance Concrete Pressure Pipe
Makeup Allowance
Type of Pipe
(gal/in dia/mi pipe/24hr)
10

AWWA C300, 301 and C303
Note: Table is an excerpt from AWWA M9.

MA5.03 Culverts
Culverts are pipes that are exposed, or open, at the upstream and
downstream ends of the pipe and typically provide conveyance of surface
water underneath a road, driveway, berm, and railway. Refer to the
appropriate pipe material section, within this chapter, for specific pipe
requirements. End treatments for use on culverts are listed in Section
MA5.14.
1.

Roadway Culverts
The following pipe materials are acceptable for roadway crossings




2.

Concrete pipe
CMP
Dual Wall PP

Driveway Culverts
Concrete pipe and DIP, with appropriate cover, are acceptable for
driveway crossings. The minimum allowable diameter is 12-inches.

MA5.04 Concrete Pipe
This section covers concrete pipe, including reinforced concrete pipe,
elliptical pipe, arch pipe and concrete box sections, for use in non-pressure
stormwater applications. Figure MA5.5 lists acceptable concrete pipe for
public storm water facilities.
1.

Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)



2.

Select pipe class based on the project specific external live and
dead loads.
Class III pipe is the minimum class accepted for public storm
water facilities.

Horizontal and Vertical Elliptical Pipe (HEP / VEP)


Select pipe class based on the external live and dead loads.



June 1, 2015

Horizontal elliptical pipe - Class HE-II is the minimum
accepted for public storm water facilities.
Vertical elliptical pipe - VE-III is the minimum accepted
for public storm water facilities.
7

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials



3.

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Elliptical pipe size is specified by (rise” x span”). See Figure
MA5.4 for example dimensions.
Elliptical pipe is typically tongue and groove joints. Bell and
spigot joints are available from various manufacturers but, are
not typical.

Concrete Arch Pipe
Select pipe class based on the external live and dead loads.



4.

Class A-III is the minimum acceptable for public storm water
facilities.
Arch pipe size is specified by (minimum rise” x minimum span”).

Precast Reinforced Box Sections
Precast reinforced concrete box sections are manufactured according to
ASTM C1577.



Table 1 in ASTM C1577 lists the design requirements for precast
concrete box sections under earth dead and HL-93 live load
conditions.
Box sections sizes specified by (w’ x h’ x t”). See Figure MA5.4
for example dimensions.

Figure MA5.4 – Concrete Pipe Example Dimensions
t”

Rise”

Rise”

t”

t”
w'
h'

Span”

Precast Reinforced Box Section

HEP

Span”

VEP

S
5.

Precast Reinforced Three Sided Structures
Precast reinforced concrete three-sided structures are manufactured
according to ASTM C1504. These structures do require a footing to
support the structure from settlement.


June 1, 2015

Dimension and reinforcements details are designed in
accordance with Section 3, 5, and 12.14 of the AASHTO - LFRD
Bridge Design Specifications.

8

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials


Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

The minimum concrete compressive strength is 5,000 psi, and
the minimum steel yield is 65,000 psi for welded wire
reinforcement and 60,000 psi for deformed billet-steel bars.
Figure MA5.5 – Concrete Pipe

Material

Class

Reinforced
Concrete
Pipe

III
IV
V

2

Horizontal
Elliptical
Pipe

Designation

Joints

ASTM C76

Bell and
Spigot

HE-II
HE-III
HE-IV
ASTM C507
Tongue
and
Groove

Vertical
Elliptical
Pipe

VE-III
VE-IV
VE-V
VE-VI

Arch Pipe

A-III
A-IV

Concrete
Box
Sections

ASTM
C1577
Table 1

ASTM
C1577

Concrete
Three
Sided
Structures

-

ASTM
C1504

2

2

ASTM C506

Tongue
and
Groove

1

Gaskets

Min –
Private

Sizes (in)
Min –
Public

Max

Rubber
Gasket
(ASTM
C443)

8

12

144

Rubber
Gasket
(ASTM
C443)

18

18

144

Flexible
Sealant
(ASTM
C990)

36

36

144

Rubber
Gasket
(ASTM
C443)

15

15

132

3’ W x 2’ H
x 4” Wall
Thickness

3’ W x 2’
H x 4”
Wall
Thickness

12’W x
12’H x 12”
Wall
Thickness

-

-

-

Flexible
sealant
with
External
joint sealer
system or
membrane
system

Note- 1- For RCP, Horizontal Elliptical pipe and Arch Pipe with diameters larger than 24”, flexible sealants may be used in lieu of rubber gaskets.
Note-2-The sizes listed are the pipe designated equivalent round size; refer to the related ASTM for exact pipe dimensions.

MA5.05 Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)
This section covers ductile iron pipe (DIP) for buried applications. Figure
MA5.6 lists acceptable DIP for public storm water facilities.



June 1, 2015

Standard DIP is cement mortar lined with a bituminous seal-coat.
Consider alternative linings for services involving abrasives, pH levels
below 4 and above 12 (6 and 12 without seal coat), acids, industrial
wastes, chemicals and scum and grease lines.

9

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Material

Designation

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA5.6 –Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)
Pressure Class
Joints Gaskets
Lining
Class Designation
Pushon

350
Ductile
Iron

AWWA C151

AWWA C150

250350

(AWWA Vulcanized

C111
and
C151)

SBR

Cement
MortarAWWA
C140

Coating

Sizes (in)
Min - Min Max
Private Public
8

Asphaltic
- AWWA
C151

12

12

14

64

1. Coating
Minimum thickness of the asphaltic coating is 1-mil.
2. Exterior Wrap
Encase DIP and appurtenances in a polyethylene wrap in accordance
with AWWA C105. Polyethylene wrap supplied in sheets or tubes is
acceptable. Minimum thickness of linear low-density polyethylene film
is 8-mils. Place circumferential wraps of adhesive tape at 2-ft intervals
along the barrel of the pipe.

MA5.06 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe – Non-Pressure
This section covers non-pressurized PVC pipe, Figure MA5.7 lists acceptable
PVC pipe for public storm water facilities.
1.

PVC Pipe
PVC pipe has an integral bell elastomeric seal joint and smooth inner
wall.


2.

If project requires PVC pipe with recycled content, then request
pipe that is in compliance with ASTM F1760.

Profile Wall PVC Pipe
Profile wall PVC pipe has a corrugated outer wall with a smooth inner
wall.
Figure MA5.7 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe

Material

PVC Pipe

Profile Wall PVC
Pipe

June 1, 2015

Designation

Min Wall
Thickness

ASTM D3034

SDR35

ASTM F679

ASTM F949

PS46

PS46

Sizes (in)
Joints

Gaskets

Fittings

Bell and
Spigot

ASTM
F477
and
ASTM
D3212

ASTM
D3034
ASTM F679

Bell and
Spigot
(ASTM
F949)

ASTM
F477

ASTM F949
ASTMF794

Min –
Private

Min –
Public

Max

8

12

15

-

18

48

8

12

36

10

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

MA5.07 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) Pipe - Non-Pressure
This section covers non-pressurized High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pipe,
Figure MA5.8 lists HDPE pipe acceptable for public storm water facilities.
Based on project specific requirements, HDPE pipe may be specified with or
without perforations and with soil or water tight joints.
1.

Dual Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipe
Dual wall HDPE pipe has a smooth interior liner in the waterway and
includes an exterior corrugation that helps brace the pipe against
deformations. The following list ASTM standards for dual wall HDPE
pipe:



Pipe manufactured per ASTM 2306 is made of virgin
Polyethylene (PE) plastic compound.
If project calls for HDPE pipe with recycled content, then require
compliance with ASTM F2648.

Corrugated dual walled pipe is also available with water tight joints;
performance is based on ASTM D3212.
Figure MA5.8 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) Pipe
Sizes (in)
Material

Dual-Wall
Corrugated
HDPE Pipe

Designation

Joints

ASTM F2306
(AASHTO
M294, Type S)

AASHTO
M252
AASHTO
M294

ASTM F26481

Gaskets

Fittings

Min –
Private

Min –
Public

Max

8

12

36

ASTM
F2306
ASTM
F477

AASHTO
M252
AASHTO
M294

Note- 1- Typically for non-public applications.

MA5.08 Corrugated Metal Pipe (CMP)
This section covers information on corrugated metal utility piping. Figure
MA5.9 lists acceptable metal pipe for stormwater facilities.
CMP is manufactured with various coatings, linings and metal types. They
vary based on the required service life and durability. The project site
corrosivity must be considered. Highly corrosive environments reduce the
lifespan of metal pipe. Consider the following site environmental factors
including, but not limited to:




June 1, 2015

Soil Resistivity – Soils with a low soil resistivity value tends to allow
electrical currents to travel more freely, potentially leading to increased
corrosion. Typically, clay soils have a low resistivity, while rock has high
resistivity.
Soil and Water pH – A normal pH is around 5.8, pH values above or
below 5.8 tends to increase corrosion.
11

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials


Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Abrasion – High solids within the stormwater increase the abrasion to
the pipe and damage the pipes protective coating.

1. Corrugation Patterns




CMP may be specified with various corrugation patterns, based
on project requirements.
The varying patterns provide different flow characteristics.
Each pipe material ASTM standard lists acceptable corrugation
types.

2. Joint Systems



CMP has various jointing systems classified as soil tight, silt
tight, leak resistant or special design; see the American Iron and
Steel Institute Modern Sewer Design Manual.
Leak resistant (gasketed) joints are the minimum acceptable for
stormwater facilities.

3. CMP Types
Listed below are typical CMP types these provide varying levels of
corrosion and abrasion resistance.
A. Aluminized Steel


The steel sheet used in fabrication of pipe
manufactured per ASTM A760 has a protective metallic
coating of aluminum (aluminized).

B. Polymer Coated






The steel sheet used in fabrication of pipe
manufactured per ASTM A762 has a polymer protective
coating over a metallic coating of zinc (galvanizing) or
an aluminum alloy.
Some severe environments may cause problems to
accessory items such as rivets or coupling band
hardware that does not have a polymer coating.
Additional protection for polymer pre-coated steel pipe
can be provided by use of coatings applied after
fabrication as described in ASTM A849.

C. Aluminum Alloy


Pipe manufactured per ASTM B745 specifies aluminumalloy sheet metal.

D. Corrugated Structural Plate Pipe
Structural plate pipe is typically used in the construction of pipe,
pipe-arches, arches, underpasses, box culverts, and special
shapes for field assembly. The following list the acceptable
standards for corrugated structural plate pipe:

June 1, 2015

ASTM A761 – Galvanized corrugated steel flat plate for
field bolted pipe
12

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements


ASTM B746 – Aluminum alloy steel flat plate for field
bolted pipe.

Figure MA5.9 Corrugated Metal (CMP) Pipe
Type

Pipe
Designation

Material

Material
Designation

ASTM A760

Aluminized
Steel

ASTM A929

ASTM A762

PolymerCoated
Steel

Min
Gauge

14
ASTM A742

Corrugated
Metal Pipe

Sizes (in)
Joints

External
SemiCorrugated
(Hugger)
Coupling
Band
External
SemiCorrugated
(Hugger)
Coupling
Band

Gaskets

Fittings

Rubber
O-Ring

Min –
Private

Min –
Public

Max

8

12

144

8

12

144

8

12

120

Match
Pipe
Mat.

ASTM B745

Aluminum
Alloy

ASTM B744

14

Rubber
O-Ring

Corrugated
Steel
Structural
Plate

ASTM A761

Galvanized

ASTM A761

-

Field Bolted

-

-

-

-

Corrugated
Aluminum
Alloy
Structural
Plate

ASTM B746

Aluminum
Alloy

ASTM B209

-

Field Bolted

-

-

-

-

MA5.09 Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene (PP) Pipe
This section covers information on polypropylene utility piping. Figure
MA5.10 lists acceptable PP pipe for public stormwater facilities. Based on
project specific requirements, PP pipe may be specified with or without
perforations and with soil or watertight joints.
1.

Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)
PP pipe has a smooth interior liner in the waterway and includes
exterior corrugation that helps brace the pipe against deformations.

June 1, 2015

13

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA5.10 Dual-Wall Polypropylene (PP) Pipe
Sizes (in)
Min –
Public

Pipe
Designation

Joints

Gaskets

Fittings

ASTM F2736

Bell and
Spigot
(ASTMF2736)

ASTM
F477

ASTM
F2736

8

12

30

ASTM F2881

Bell and
Spigot
(ASTMF2881)

ASTM
F477

ASTM
F2881

8

36

48

Type

Dual-Wall
Corrugated PP Pipe

Min –
Private

Max

MA5.10 Underdrains
This section covers information related to stormwater underdrains.
Underdrains are small diameter pipes that provide subsurface drainage.
These pipes are available in multiple materials, with or without perforations
and must be protected from fine sediment with geotextiles.
1.

Underdrain Pipe Materials
Figure MA5.11 lists acceptable underdrain pipes for stormwater
facilities.
Figure MA5.11 Underdrain Pipe Materials
Sizes (in)

Material

Designation Perforations

Dual Wall
Corrugated
PVC Pipe

ASTM F949

ASTM F949

Dual Wall
Corrugated
HDPE Pipe

AASHTO
M252 or
ASTM
F2648

AASHTO
M252
AASHTO
M294
ASTM F2648
2.

Joints
Bell and
Spigot
(ASTM
F949)
AASHTO
M252
AASHTO
M294
ASTM
D3212

Gaskets

Fittings

ASTM
F477

ASTM
F477

Min –
Private

Min –
Public

ASTM F949
ASTM F794

4

6

AASHTO
M252
AASHTO
M294

4

6

Perforations
Dimensions and configurations of perforations are based on the
application and manufacturer’s recommendations.


3.

Pipe connected by bell and spigot joints shall not be perforated
in the area of the bells and spigots.

Fine Sediment Protection
Perforations on underdrains must be protected from fine sediment to
prevent the underdrain from clogging. The following are two acceptable
methods for providing protection:

June 1, 2015

14

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials




4.

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

A geosynthetic filter sock wrap that fits around the
circumference of the pipe per manufacturer’s
recommendations. Coordinate the material requirements with
the pipe manufacturer.
Wrap the underdrain pipe trench with a nonwoven geotextile
fabric. Refer to Chapter MA4 – Common Materials and Testing
Requirements for nonwoven geotextile fabric requirements.

Cleanouts
Cleanouts must be spaced as follows to allow maintenance access to all
sections of the pipe.



Cleanouts are spaced at a minimum of 300 feet apart along the
total length of the underdrain.
The material, joints, and fittings of cleanouts must be
compatible with the underdrain pipe material per pipe
manufacturer’s recommendations.

MA5.11 Manholes
This section covers information on precast concrete storm drainage
manholes and pipe to manhole connection requirements. Precast storm
drainage manholes are manufactured by wet cast methods using forms.
Table MA5.12 lists typical storm drainage manholes.

Material

Precast
Concrete

Figure MA5.12 Storm Drainage Manholes
Pipe
Detail
Designation
Joints
Gaskets
Connections
Numbers
STR-30-1
Preformed
STR-30-2 Tongue
Flexible
Grout Collar or
ASTM C478
STR-30-3
and
Sealant
Rubber Gasket
STR-30-4 Groove
(ASTM
Boot
C990)

1.

Sizes (in)
Min

48

Pipe Connections to Manhole
A. Pipe opening in manholes are either pre-formed by the
manufacturer or field drilled




June 1, 2015

When using RCP, the pipe manhole opening diameter
shall not exceed the pipe outer diameter plus six inches
(O.D.+6”)
When using non-concrete pipe, the manhole pipe
opening diameter shall not exceed the pipe outer
diameter plus four inches (O.D.+4”)

15

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Connections between the manhole and pipe must be soil tight. The
following methods are appropriate:




Grout collar- placed in the annular space between the
manhole and pipe. Use Class A or Class B grout in
accordance with Chapter MA4 – Common Materials and
Testing Requirements.
Rubber Gasket Boot- Use one of the following
manufactured in accordance with ASTMC923.
a) For pipes ≤36” diameter:
 Press-Seal PSX: Positive Seal
 NPC Kor-N-Seal II 306 Series
b) For pipes ≥36” diameter:
 A-Lok Premium
 Press-Seal WS 30 Waterstop
Grouting Ring

MA5.12 Inlet Structures
This section covers information on stormwater drainage inlets. Inlets are area
drains, catch basins and yard drains and typically used to convey stormwater
runoff into the collection system. Figure MA5.13 lists typical inlet structures
for use in stormwater applications. For each inlet’s application information
refer to Exhibit MA5-1.
1.

Precast Inlet Structures
Precast structures are available in a variety of sizes and are typically
used within the right-of-way and parking areas.

2.

Plastic Inlet Structures
Nyloplast plastic structures are available in a variety of sizes ranging
from an 8” drain basin to a 30” drain basin and typically used for
applications outside of the right-of-way. Each drain basin size has a
matching grate assembly that is available from the manufacturer and is
based on the specific application.
Figure MA5.13 Inlet Structures

Material

Precast Concrete

Plastic
June 1, 2015

Sizes

Designation

Detail
Numbers

Joints

ASTM C478

STR-32-1
STR-32-2
STR-32-3
STR-34-1
STR-34-2
STR-34-3
STR-34-4

Tongue and
Groove

ADS Nyloplast Drain Basin
(or approved equal)

MinPrivate

MinPublic

30” Diameter
30” x 30” Square

8”
Diameter

12”
Diameter
16

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

MA5.13 Utility Trench Drains
This section covers linear utility trench drains that capture overland
sheet flow and convey runoff to the stormwater collection system.
Figure MA5.14 lists the common trench drain types.



Utility trench drain pipes that are PVC, HDPE, or CMP must have
the pipe encased in concrete.
Proprietary trench drains are acceptable and for use outside of
the right-or-way. Coordinate with manufacturer’s requirements
and recommendations.

Figure MA5.14 Utility Trench Drains
Type

Pipe/Trench
Material

Detail
Numbers

Cast Iron Grate

Reinforced
Concrete

SW-5-1

Slotted Vane
Drain

HDPE
PVC
CMP

SW-5-2

Grate l

Trench Drain
Type I
Trench Drain
Type II
Proprietary
Trench Drains

Conform to manufacturer’s requirements

MA5.14 End Treatments
This section covers end treatments for storm sewer pipe including end
sections, erosion control, backflow prevention and pipe anchoring. End
treatments are required to ensure free flowing inflow and outflow, prevent
floatation, and protect against soil erosion. Based on project requirements
various end treatment shapes may be utilized including:








flared
safety metal grated
headwalls
headwall with wingwalls
slope matching mitered structures
grated box
engineered baffles and structures

Typical end section structures are listed in Figure MA5.15.

June 1, 2015

17

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Figure MA5.15 End Treatments
End Treatment Material

Material
Designation

Joint to Pipe

Detail
Number

Precast Concrete –
Flared End Section

ASTM C76

Tongue and
Groove

STR-46-3

Cast in Place Concrete
Headwall
Cast in Place Concrete
Headwall with Wingwalls

STR-39
Concrete Requirements are listed in
Chapter MA4 –Common Materials and
Testing Requirements

Cast in Place Reinforced
Concrete Slope Walls

n/a

AASHTO M 218 or
ASTM A929

Metal

1.

n/a

Flat Strap
Connector
Threaded Rod
Dimple Band
Collar (Bolted
to End
Section)

STR-46-2

Anchoring
Provide pipe anchoring for all non-concrete pipes, to protect against
floatation.
An 18” toe plate extension is required for all steel end sections. See STR37 for toe plate extension.
For pipes ≥ 60-inches, the applicable INDOT standard details and
specifications shall be used for pipe end anchors.

2.

Energy Dissipation
Energy dissipation is used to reduce the outlet velocity and to help
prevent erosion. The following are acceptable energy dissipation
materials:






3.

Riprap – Refer to Chapter MA4 – Common Materials
and Testing Requirements
Engineered baffled spillway
Geotex
Scourstop
Proprietary erosion control products

High Water Protection-Gates and Check Valves
For locations where backflow from waterways or water bodies into the
piping network is a concern, utilize the appropriate valves or gates.

June 1, 2015

18

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

A. Rubber Duckbill Check Valves
Rubber duckbill check valves shall be flow operated check type with
a slip-on connection. Inlet port area shall be 100 percent of the
connecting pipe port size. The port area shall contour down to a
duckbill that shall allow flow in one direction while preventing
reverse flow. The flexible duckbill shall be one piece construction
with fabric reinforcement. The valve shall also have a Neoprene
exterior wrapping, or approved equal, for protection against
sunlight attack. The following products are acceptable:



Tideflex by Red Valve Company
Or approved equal

B. Metal Top-Hinged Flapgates
Metal top-hinged flapgates shall be flow operated check type. The
port opening shall be equal in size to the connecting pipe. The flap
shall allow flow in one direction while preventing reverse flow. The
upper hinge shall be designed such that minimal maintenance is
required. The following products are acceptable:



Waterman Industries F-25 and F-55 cast iron, automatic
drainage gates
Or approved equal

C. Sluice Gates
Use sluice gates in locations where isolation of the system is
necessary. Sluice gate design and materials are based on project
specific requirements and must be approved by CUE.
4. Trash Racks
For locations where large objects and debris are a concern utilize trash
racks to protect pipes from clogging and downstream facilities. Trash
racks should be used at the inlet of an outfall structure. Trash rack bar
spacing are designed based upon specific hydraulic and site
requirements. Trash rack structures are available in a variety of sizes
and manufactured for all pipe material.
5. Stormwater Basin Outfall
To minimize overloading downstream stormwater facilities, use a tshape orifice outfall structure. Use a minimum outfall pipe diameter of
12”; see Exhibit SW11.7 for the layout and configuration.

MA5.15 Castings Frames and Covers
This section covers the various types of stormwater manhole and inlet
structures castings, frames, covers, and grates.
All castings must include environmental lettering to notify the public that the
stormwater system drains to the river.
June 1, 2015

19

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials
1.

Metal Castings




2.

Gray iron castings are recommended for metal castings.
Ductile iron may be required when design loading is greater
than AASHTO H-20 loading. Consult the manufacturers when
loads greater than AASHTO H-20 are required.
Exhibit MA5-1 lists the appropriate metal casting that
corresponds to the inlet structure. And specifies the appropriate
location for the various casting types.

Adjusting Rings






3.

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Precast concrete grade rings, manufactured in accordance with
ASTM C478, are used to adjust the finish elevation of the metal
casting. See standard detail STR-33-1 for appropriate thickness
and height of the grade rings.
Grade rings are sealed with a preformed flexible rope joint
sealant manufactured in accordance with ASTM C990 and
AASHTO-M198. The following products are acceptable:
a) EZ Stik by Press-Seal Gasket Corporation, or
b) Kent Seal No. 2 by Hamilton Kent, or
c) Approved equal
The exterior of the grade rings are sealed with a non-woven
geotextile fabric. Fabric requirements are listed in Chapter MA4
– Common Materials and Testing Requirements.

Plastic Castings
Plastic castings are used with plastic drainage structures. Ensure that
the casting is compatible with the structure as per the manufacturer.
Plastic castings are for yard drain applications and not for vehicle
loading situations or within the public right-of-way.

MA5.16 Green Infrastructure
Green infrastructure is used to manage stormwater on site-constructed
rather than factory constructed measures. For additional information
regarding green infrastructure, see Chapter SW11 - Stormwater
Management.
1.

Bioretention
Common to all bioretention systems is the use of amended soils and
plants that provide a catalyst for infiltration, evapotranspiration and
stormwater treatment. Material requirements for these systems are
listed below.
A. Underdrain Piping
Underdrain piping material acceptable for bioretention construction
is listed in Section MA5.10 Underdrains.

June 1, 2015

20

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

B. Filter Aggregate
Pipe filter aggregate is a 6-inch layer of washed INDOT #5 stone and
a 4-inch layer of washed INDOT #11 stone. Stone gradation
requirements are listed in Chapter MA4 – Common Materials and
Testing Requirements. The stone cannot contain more than 1% silt,
clay, or organic material, and cannot contain any Pre-Cenozoic
limestone, dolomite, or stone containing phosphate.
C. Revetment Stone
Revetment stone is installed in sediment forebays, weirs and
spillways. It consists of washed INDOT revetment stone and
contains no more than 1% silt, clay or organic material.
D. Geotextile Fabric
Geotextile fabric acceptable for bioretention construction is listed in
Chapter MA4 – Common Materials and Testing Requirements.
E. Amended Soil
Amended soil is a mixture of 50% coarse sand and 50% compost.







Sand for amended soil is clean construction sand, free
of deleterious materials, and shall conform to the
grading requirements of the ASTM C33, as shown in
Figure MA5.16.
Compost for amended soil is aged leaf compost free of
deleterious materials, including but not limited to clay,
silt, manure solids, woody debris, plastics, construction
debris, or other material that may negatively affect
infiltration.
The compost pH shall range from 5.5 to 8.5, and all
particles must pass through a one 1” screen or smaller.
Compost that smells putrid, has an ammonia odor, or
shows visible signs of mold is unacceptable.

Figure MA5.16- Amended Soil Sand Gradation Requirements
Sieve Size (in)

Percent Passing

3/8 in

100

No. 4

95 to 100

No. 8

85 to 100

No. 16

50 to 85

No. 30

25 to 60

No. 50

10 to 30

No. 100

2 to 10

Note: Table based on ASTM C33

June 1, 2015

21

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

F. Double Shredded Hardwood Mulch





Mulch is composed of shredded hardwood bark and
does not contain colored dyes or other chemical
treatments.
Mulch shall not contain any foreign material, debris, or
compounds that may be detrimental to plant growth.
The depth of mulch for bioretention shall be less than
or equal to 3-inches.

G. Plants
Plants acceptable for bioretention are listed in Section MA5.19 Plant
List.
H. Bioretention Quality Assurance
Installers shall be qualified laborers who have at least 3 years of
experience with native planting and shall have successfully
performed at least 5 native planting projects similar in size and
scope to the current project. An on-site supervisor, experienced in
native planting with a minimum 4-year degree in natural resources,
biology, or related field, shall be required.
2.

Green Roofs
A green roof or vegetated roof is a system consisting of waterproofing
materials, growing medium and vegetation. Green roofs can be used in
lieu of a traditional roof to reduce the roofs impervious area and help
manage the runoff. Materials vary based on the roof structure and
application

3.

Cisterns and Rain Barrels
Cisterns and rain barrels are structures used to intercept and store
stormwater runoff from rooftops. The stored water is then reused for
irrigation or plumbed into buildings per building codes. These systems
are manufactured in many shapes and sizes and can either be above or
below ground and drained by either gravity or pump.

4.

Inlet and Outlet Controls
Inlet and outlet controls are structures or landscape features that
manage flow into and out of a storm water management facility. Flow
splitters, level spreaders, curb openings, energy dissipaters, infiltration
inlets, and curbless design are all examples of inlet controls. Outlet
controls include risers and orifices, underdrains, permeable weirs,
positive overflows, sub-thermocline basin release, and impervious
covers. Inlet and outlet controls are typically design elements or
proprietary structures.

5.

Filters
Filters are structures or excavated areas containing layers of sand,
compost, organic material, or other filter media, and are used to reduce

June 1, 2015

22

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

pollutant levels in storm water runoff. Filters can be site-specific design
or proprietary structures.
6.

Pervious Pavement
Acceptable pervious pavement is listed in Chapter MA4 - Common
Materials and Testing Requirements.

MA5.17 Underground Stormwater Storage
There are multiple different styles and types of underground storage
structures that fit specific site footprints and applications. These
underground storage systems can be used to store, infiltrate, facilitate
infiltration and retain stormwater flows. Exhibit MA5-2 shows the acceptable
types of underground storage. Refer to manufacturer’s recommendations for
installations and material requirements.

MA5.18 Manufactured Stormwater Quality Units (SQU)
SQUs are flow-through structures with a settling or separation unit that
removes sediment and other pollutants. External power is not required,
because the energy of the flowing water separates the sediment. There are
many variations of these structures designed to fit specific needs. These units
work best when the material to be removed from the runoff is heavy, which
can be settled, or floatables, which can be captured.
SQUs can be used alone or in conjunction with other stormwater best
management practices. These units come in various sizes designed to treat
different flowrates. Exhibit MA5-3 lists approved offline SQUs and their
treatment flowrates. Operations and maintenance manual and SWPPP
requirements are listed within the checklist found in Exhibit MA5-4.

MA5.19 Plant List
City Utilities has developed a list that identifies plant types best suited for the
climate and conditions in Fort Wayne. Refer to
http://www.cityoffortwayne.org/utilities/images/stories/designman/PlantLis
tFinal.pdf for a list of Fort Wayne native plant species that includes
information such as salt tolerance, sun exposure, and plant height. This
information is important to consider when choosing plants for green
infrastructure applications.

MA5.20 Gabions and Mattress Linings
Gabions and mattress linings can be utilized for bank stabilization and erosion
control. In general, gabions and mattresses shall be designed and installed
per manufacturer’s recommendations. Refer to standard details EROS-9-2,
EROS-9-3, and EROS-9-4 for the various layouts of gabion boxes mattresses.

June 1, 2015

23

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Materials
1.

Gabion and Mattress Linings General Guidelines









June 1, 2015

Book 5 Chapter MA5
Stormwater Materials and Testing Requirements

Standard gabions and mattress linings shall be fabricated so as
to be of a single unit construction - the base, lids, and sides shall
be woven into a single unit.
The mesh sizes shall be clearly indicated. Standard sizes include
6 x 8 and 8 x 10. The mesh shall be hexagonal woven mesh with
all joints formed by twisting each pair of wires through 3 ½
turns.
Lacing (connection) of the gabions and mattress linings shall be
clearly specified. In general, lacing wire shall be secured at the
corner of the gabion or mattress and the lacing wire shall be
laced alternating with single and double loops every other
opening at intervals of not more than 6-inches. Rings may be
used in lieu of lacing wire.
Gabion and mattress linings shall be coated with zinc or, in
aggressive environments, PVC. Zinc coated (galvanized) wire
shall conform to ASTM A641. Coating specifications shall be
detailed in the project specifications.
Geotextile filter fabric shall be specified at required gabion
and/or mattress soil interfaces to prevent soil intrusion into the
gabion. Refer to Chapter MA4 - Common Materials and Testing
Requirements for geosynthetic fabric requirements.

24



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 1/5/15
SECTION 40 05 06
COUPLINGS, ADAPTERS AND SPECIALS FOR PROCESS PIPING
NTS:  This section includes flexible mechanical couplings, flanged adapters, various expansion joints for piping, and dielectric connections.  Edit the section to suit the project and add other piping specialties as required.
This section contains detailed descriptive requirements of the product(s) of the named manufacturer(s).  If the product of another manufacturer is to be included, this section may require editing.
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals as shown, specified, and required to furnish and install all couplings, adapters, and specials for process piping. 
Coordination:
Review installation procedures under this and other Sections and coordinate installation of items that must be installed with or before couplings, adapters, and specials for process piping Work.
NTS:  Delete Paragraph "2" on single-prime contract projects.
Notify other contractors in advance of the installation of couplings, adapters, and specials for process piping to provide them with sufficient time for installing items included in their contracts that must be installed with or before couplings, adapters, and specials for process piping Work.
Related Sections:
NTS:  List below only sections covering products, construction, and equipment specifically identified in this section and specified in another section and directly referenced in this specification.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections.  
Section 09 97 43, Coating Systems for Water and Wastewater Facilities.
Section 33 11 00, Water Piping Installation.
Section 33 31 00, Sanitary Sewer Piping Installation.
Section 33 41 00, Storm Utility Piping Installation.
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the various fittings for process piping to be used for the project adjust Section 1.5 below for additional work item number as needed. 
Couplings, adapters, and specials for process piping
Work Item Number and Title
   	40 05 06-A Couplings
   	40 05 06-B Adapters
   	40 05 06-C (--1--) Specials
Measurement: The quantity of (couplings, adapters or specials) installed shall be on a unit price basis per type and size as indicated on the Bid Schedule. 
Payment:  The payment of (couplings, adapters or specials) shall be based on the unit price as listed in the Bid schedule per each type and size successfully installed. 
REFERENCES
NTS:  Retain applicable standards and add others as required.
Standards referenced in this Section are:
ANSI B16.1, Cast-Iron Pipe Flanges and Flanged Fittings.
ANSI B16.39, Malleable Iron Threaded Pipe Unions.
ASME B31, Standards of Pressure Piping.
ASTM A53/A53M, Specification for Pipe, Steel, Black and Hot-dipped, Zinc-Coated, Welded and Seamless.
ASTM A105/A105M, Specification for Carbon Steel Forgings and Piping Applications.
ASTM B169/B169M Specification for Aluminum Bronze Sheet, Strip, and Rolled Bar.
ASTM B650, Specification for Electro-Deposited Engineering Chromium Coatings of Ferrous Substrates.
ASTM C1173, Standard Specification for Flexible Transition Couplings for Underground Piping Systems.
ASTM D5926, Standard Specifications for Poly (Vinyl Chloride) (PVC) Gaskets for Drain, Waste, and Vent (DWV), Sewer, Sanitary, and Storm Plumbing Systems.
ASTM F593, Specification for Stainless Steel Bolts, Hex Cap Screws, and Studs
AWWA C606, Grooved and Shouldered Joints.
QUALITY ASSURANCE 
NTS:  Edit or delete Paragraph "A" below, if project requirements prohibit experience clause.
Qualifications:
Manufacturer shall have at least five years experience producing substantial similar products to those specified and shall be able to provide documentation of at least five installations in satisfactory operation for at least five years each.
Component Supply and Compatibility:
Obtain each type of coupling, adapter, and special for process piping product included in this Section, regardless of component manufacturer, from a single couplings, adapters, and specials manufacturer.
Supplier shall prepare, or review, and approve all submittals for components furnished under this Section.
Components shall be suitable for specified service conditions and be integrated into overall assembly by the Supplier.
SUBMITTALS 
Action Submittals: Submit the following:
Shop Drawings: 
Submit piping layout Shop Drawings in accordance with the Contract Documents.
Product Data: 
      Submit product data on each type of coupling, expansion joint, and other piping specialties and accessories, including gaskets, hardware, and appurtenances sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the Contract Documents.
Informational Submittals: Submit the following: 
Certificates: 
      When requested by Engineer submit certificate attesting to compliance with standards referenced in this Section, signed by manufacturer.
Manufacturer's Instructions: 
      Provide instructions for handling, storing, installing, and adjusting of products.
Source Quality Control: 
When requested by Engineer, submit results of source quality control tests.
Qualifications Statements: 
Submit qualifications of manufacturer when requested by Engineer.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NTS:  Delete types of piping specialties and accessories not used.  Edit "PART 2" as required. 
PRODUCTS 
COUPLINGS 
Sleeve-type, Flexible Couplings: 
Pressure and Service: Same as connected piping.
Products and Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
NTS:  Substitute Dresser "Style 38" for "Style 253", and substitute Smith Blair "Style 411" for "Style 441" for couplings greater than 16-inch diameter, when working pressure exceeds 200 psi (for Dresser Style 38) or 250 psi (for Smith Blair Style 441), and when steel couplings are acceptable.  Dresser Style 38 and Smith Blair Style 411 (steel coupling) are available in sizes from 0.5-inch to 60-inch diameter (Smith Blair Style 411) and 72-inch diameter (Dresser Style 38).  Dresser Style 253 and Smith Blair Style 441 (cast-iron coupling) are available in sizes from two-inch to 16-inch diameter for the following pipe materials: steel, asbestos cement, cast or ductile iron, and PVC.
      Style 253, as manufactured by Dresser Piping Specialties, part of Dresser, Inc. 
      Style 441, by Smith Blair, Inc.
      Or Engineer approved equal.
NTS:  If the pipe is steel or if there will be no problem with corrosion, in Paragraph "3" below substitute "steel" for ductile-iron and coordinate with model numbers specified in Paragraph "2" above.
Material: Ductile Iron.
NTS:  In Paragraph "4", below, special rubber gaskets are available for different conditions.  Select "as recommended by manufacturer" or consult with specified manufacturers and insert at No. 1 the gasket material.  Paragraph "5", below, may revised to standard-strength bolts and nuts if acceptable. 
Gaskets: Suitable for specified service, as recommended by manufacturer (--1--).
Bolts and Nuts: Alloy steel, corrosion-resistant, primer-coated.  For buried or submerged applications, provide stainless steel bolts complete with washers complying with ASTM F593, AISI Type 316 and with nitrided stainless nuts. 
NTS:  Retain one version of Paragraph "6", below, and delete the other.  Use the second version when complete harnessing details are included on the drawings; otherwise, use the first version.
Harnessing: 
      Harness couplings to restrain pressure piping.  For pipelines that will be under pressure, test pressures are specified in piping schedules in Section 33 05 05, Buried Piping Installation, and Section 40 05 05, Exposed Piping Installation.
      Tie adjacent flanges with bolts of corrosion-resistant alloy steel.  Provide flange-mounted stretcher bolt plates to be designed by manufacturer, unless otherwise approved.  For buried or submerged applications, provide external bolting and other hardware of Type 316 stainless steel, including tie bolts, bolt plates, lugs, nuts, and washers. 
      On plain-end piping, for harnessing couplings, provide anchor restraint system such as Dresser Piping Specialties STAR Anchor Style 443, or equal.
      Conform to dimensions, size, spacing, and materials for lugs, bolts, washers, and nuts as recommended by manufacturer and approved by Engineer for pipe size, wall thickness, and test pressure required.  Provide minimum 5/8-inch diameter bolts.
    1. Harnessing:
      Harness couplings to restrain pressure piping.  For pipelines that will be under pressure, test pressures are specified in piping schedules in Section 33 05 05, Buried Piping Installation, and Section 40 05 05, Exposed Piping Installation.
      Harnessing shall conform to details shown.  For buried or submerged applications, provide external bolting and other hardware of Type 316 stainless steel, including tie bolts, bolt plates, lugs, nuts, and washers.
      On plain end piping, for harnessing couplings, provide anchor restraint system such as Dresser Piping Specialties STAR Anchor Style 443, or equal.
Remove pipe stop(s) if used, unless otherwise shown or specified.
Flanged Coupling Adapters: 
Description: One end of adapter shall be flanged and opposite end shall have sleeve-type flexible coupling.
Products and Manufacturers:  Provide one of the following: 
NTS:  For flanged coupling adapters greater than 12-inch diameter and when steel flanged coupling adapters are acceptable, substitute Dresser "Style 128" for "Style 227", and substitute Smith Blair "Style 913" for "Style 912" below.  Dresser Style 128 and Smith Blair Style 913 (steel flanged adapter) are available in sizes from two-inch to 24-inch diameter as standard (up to 96-inch is available as custom).  Dresser Style 227 and Smith Blair Style 912 (cast-iron flanged adapter) are available in sizes from three-inch to 12-inch diameter for the following pipe materials: steel, asbestos cement, cast or ductile iron, and PVC.
      Style 227, as manufactured by Dresser Piping Specialties, part of Dresser, Inc. 
      Style 912, by Smith Blair, Inc.
      Or Engineer approved equal.
         
Pressure and Service: Same as connected piping.
NTS:  If the pipe is steel or if there will be no problem with corrosion, in Paragraph "3" below substitute "steel" for ductile-iron and coordinate with model numbers specified in Paragraph "2" above.
Material: Ductile iron.
NTS: In Paragraph "5", below, special rubber gaskets are available for different conditions.  Retain "recommended by the manufacturer" or consult with specified manufacturers and insert at No. 1 the gasket material.  Paragraph "6", below, may revised to standard-strength bolts and nuts if acceptable. 
Gasket:  Recommended by the manufacturer (--1--).
Bolts and Nuts:  Alloy steel, corrosion-resistant, primer-coated.  For buried or submerged applications, provide stainless steel bolts complete with washers complying with ASTM F593, AISI Type 316 and nitrided stainless nuts.  
NTS:  Retain one version of Paragraph "7" below and delete the other.  Edit to suit the project.  Use the second version when complete harnessing details are included on the drawings; otherwise, use the first version.
Harnessing:
      Harness adapters to restrain pressure piping.  For pressure pipelines, test pressures are included in piping schedules in Piping Installation Sections.
      For flanged adapters 12-inch diameter and smaller, provide 1/2-inch diameter (minimum) Type 316 stainless steel anchor studs installed in pressure-tight anchor boss.  For buried or submerged applications, provide external bolting and other hardware of Type 316 stainless steel, including tie bolts, bolt plates, lugs, nuts, and washers.  Provide number of studs required to restrain test pressure and service conditions.  Harness shall be as designed and recommended by flanged adapter manufacturer.  Provide the following minimum anchor studs unless otherwise approved by Engineer. 
NTS:  Studs specified below are suitable for 175 psi.  Edit as required to suit service conditions.  For flanged adapters on pump discharge outlets, edit this section to require conformance to hydraulic institute standards for allowable nozzle loads 
Six-inch Diameter and Smaller: Two
Eight-inch Diameter and Smaller: Four
Ten-inch Diameter and Smaller: Six
Twelve-inch Diameter and Smaller: Eight
      For adapters larger than 12-inch diameter, provide split-ring harness clamps with minimum of four corrosion-resistant alloy steel bolts.  For buried or submerged applications, provide external bolting and other hardware of Type 316 stainless steel, including tie bolts, bolt plates, lugs, nuts, and washers.  Harness assembly shall be as designed and recommended by flanged adapter manufacturer.  Dimensions, sizes, spacing and materials shall be suitable for service and conditions encountered and shall be approved by Engineer.
    1. Harnessing:
      Harness couplings to restrain pressure piping.  For pressure pipelines, test pressures are included in piping schedules in Section 33 05 05, Buried Piping Installation, and Section 40 05 05, Exposed Piping Installation.
      Harnessing shall conform to details shown.  For buried or submerged applications, provide external bolting and other hardware of Type 316 stainless steel, including tie bolts, bolt plates, lugs, nuts, and washers.
Split-type Grooved or Shouldered End Couplings:
Pressure and Service: Same as connected piping.  Use shouldered end where required by pressure rating.
NTS: For piping other than steel (where both rigid and flexible couplings are specified below), the couplings in Paragraph "2" are flexible.  Most of the flexible couplings specified have rigid counterparts by the named manufacturers.  Edit to suit the project.
In addition to the pipe types and models specified in Paragraph "2", below, Victaulic also offers Style 606 couplings for jointing copper pipe, two-inch to eight-inch diameter.
Products and Manufacturers: 
      For coupling of cast-iron or ductile iron pipe, provide products of one of the following:
Style 31, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Series 500, as manufactured by Tyler Pipe, Gustin Bacon Division.
Gruvlok Figure 705, as manufactured by Grinnell Mechanical Products, division of Tyco.
Or Engineer approved equal. 
NTS:  When both Paragraphs "b" and "c" below are used, specify or show on the drawings where joint deflection is allowed and where rigid couplings are required.
      For coupling of standard steel pipe, where joint deflection is desired or allowed, provide products of one of the following:
Style 77, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Series 1000, as manufactured by Tyler Pipe, Gustin Bacon Division.
Or Engineer approved equal.
      For coupling of standard steel pipe, where joint deflection is not desired or allowed, provide products of one of the following:
Style HP-70, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Series 110, as manufactured Tyler Pipe, Gustin Bacon Division.
Or Engineer approved equal.
      For coupling of stainless steel pipe, provide products of one of the following:
Style 77-S, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Or Engineer approved equal.
      For coupling of aluminum pipe, provide products of one of the following:
Style 77A, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Series 101, as manufactured by Tyler Pipe, Gustin Bacon Division.
Or Engineer approved equal.
      For coupling of thermoplastic pipe, provide products of one of the following:
Style 774, as manufactured by Victaulic Company.
Or Engineer approved equal.
Couplings shall conform to applicable requirements of AWWA C606.
NTS:  Retain housing material(s) to suit types of pipe included in the project and delete types of housings not required.
Housing Material:
      For coupling of cast-iron pipe, ductile iron pipe, steel pipe, and thermoplastic pipe:  Malleable iron or ductile iron.
      For coupling of stainless steel pipe: Type 304 stainless steel, or equal.
      For coupling of aluminum pipe: Aluminum alloy 356-T6.
NTS:  In Paragraph "5", below, special rubber gaskets are available for different conditions.  Retain "recommended by the manufacturer" or consult with specified manufacturers and insert at No. 1 the gasket material.  
Gaskets:  Recommended by the manufacturer (--1--). 
Bolts and Nuts: Heat-treated carbon steel track bolts, plated.  For buried or submerged applications, provide stainless steel bolts complete with washers complying with ASTM F593, AISI Type 316 and with nitrided stainless nuts.  
NTS:  The mechanical products industry manufactures a large variety of expansion joints for piping.  Verify with specified manufacturers the service and application before editing Article "2.2" for the project.
EXPANSION JOINTS
Rubber-type Expansion Joints:
General:
      Use rubber-type expansion joints at all expansion joint locations, except where other types of expansion joints are shown or specified.
Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
Mercer Rubber Company.
      U.S. Rubber Supply Company, USA
Or Engineer approved equal.
Liquid Service:
      Construct expansion joints of neoprene or Buna-N suitable for temperatures up to 180 degrees F.
      Expansion joints shall be filled arch type.  Provide backup or retaining rings as recommended by expansion joint manufacturer.
      Expansion joints shall be yoked in manner to provide transmission of tension loading to which expansion joint may be subjected during system operation.  Compressive or lateral movement of expansion joint shall not be impaired by yoking system.  Details of expansion joint yoking shall be submitted to Engineer for approval.
Air Service:
      Provide pipe expansion joints in air piping where shown as a minimum.  Provide additional expansion joints if recommended by pipe manufacturer.
      Air Service Expansion Joints  -  General: 
Except for expansion joints required at inlet and outlet connections of air blowers, construct expansion joints of chlorobutyl rubber, reinforced with embedded steel rings and strong synthetic fabric.
Expansion joints six-inch diameter and smaller shall be double arch units.  Expansion joints larger than six-inch diameter shall be triple arch units. 
Ends shall be flanged, with flanges conforming to ANSI B16.1, Class 125.  Provide epoxy-coated split steel retaining rings to prevent damage to flanges when bolts are tightened.
Expansion joints shall be suitable for temperatures up to 300 degrees F, and pressures to 40 psi. 
      Air Service Expansion Joints  -  At Air Blower Inlet and Outlet Connections:
Expansion joints shall be U-type units constructed of chlorobutyl rubber, reinforced with a strong synthetic fabric.  
Expansion joints shall minimize the transmission of vibration from blower to piping at suction and discharge connections.  
Expansion joint ends shall be flanged, with flanges conforming to ANSI B16.1, Class 125.  Provide epoxy-coated split steel retaining rings to prevent damage to flanges when bolts are tightened.
Expansion joints shall be suitable for temperatures up to 300 degrees F, and pressures to 40 psi.  
      The following table specifies minimum required non-concurrent movements for double arch units.
         
         
NTS: Insert at No. 1 to No. 4 values to suit the project.
                       Expansion Joint Diameter (inches)
                          Lateral Deflection (inches)
                           Axial Elongation (inches)
                          Axial Compression (inches)
                                    (--1--)
                                    (--2--)
                                    (--3--)
                                    (--4--)
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       

      The following table specifies minimum required non-concurrent movements for triple arch units.
NTS: Insert at No. 1 to No. 4 values to suit the project.
                       Expansion Joint Diameter (inches)
                          Lateral Deflection (inches)
                           Axial Elongation (inches)
                          Axial Compression (inches)
			(--1--)
                                    (--2--)
                                    (--3--)
                                    (--4--)
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       




Harnessing:
      Harness each expansion joint against thrust for test pressure in piping, as specified in Piping Installation Sections.  
      Harnessing shall be by control units consisting of two or more tie rods connected between flanges, set for maximum allowable elongation of expansion joint.  
      Provide epoxy-coated triangular plates to connect tie rods to flanges.  Tie rods shall be Series 300 stainless steel.  Rubber washers shall be used between triangular plates and tie rods.  
      Provide control units in accordance with recommendations of expansion joint manufacturer.	
Stainless Steel Expansion Joints:
Provide stainless steel expansion joints where shown.
Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
Senior Flexonics Canada, Ltd. 
Hyspan Precision Products, Inc. 
Or Engineer approved equal.
Stainless Steel Expansion Joints  -  General: 
      Expansion joint elements shall be hydraulically formed of single-ply austenitic stainless steel, and shall withstand specified pressure and temperature conditions, and shall absorb thermal expansion of piping. 
      Expansion joints shall be free flexing type with internal sleeves and shall be Type 304 stainless steel with fixed rolled angle flange.  
      Expansion joints shall be manufactured and rated in accordance with ASME B31, wherever possible.  Burst strength shall be equal to four times working pressure of pipeline, and test hydrostatic pressure shall be equal to 1.5 times rated working pressure of expansion joint.
      Expansion joints in yard air piping shall have internal guide with thickness equal to piping wall thickness.
Stainless Steel Expansion Joints  -  Digester Gas Service:
      Expansion joints shall be formed of three-ply, Type 316L stainless steel and shall withstand specified pressure and temperature conditions, and shall absorb thermal expansion. 
      Joints shall be free flexing type with internal sleeves and shall be Type 316L stainless steel with fixed rolled angle flange.  
      Expansion joints shall be manufactured and rated in accordance with ASME B31, wherever possible.  Burst strength shall be equal to four times working pressure of pipeline, and test hydrostatic pressure shall be equal to 1.5 times rated working pressure of expansion joint.
The following table specifies minimum required non-concurrent movements for stainless steel expansion joints:
NTS:  Insert at No. 1 to No. 4 values below to suit the project.
                       Expansion Joint Diameter (inches)
                          Lateral Deflection (inches)
                           Axial Elongation (inches)
                          Axial Compression (inches)
                                    (--1--)
                                    (--2--)
                                    (--3--)
                                    (--4--)
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       



Harnessing:
      Harness each expansion joint against thrust for test pressure in piping, as specified in piping schedules in  Piping Installation Sections.
      Harnessing shall be by two or more limit rods connected between flanges set for maximum allowable elongation of expansion joint. 
      Limit rods and connection accessories shall be of Series 300 stainless steel. 
      Limit rods shall be provided in accordance with the recommendations of expansion joint manufacturer.
NTS:  The most common uses for packed slip expansion joints are in the distribution of steam and hot water, and where the principal movement is axial.  The specification in Paragraph "C" is proprietary to Hyspan.
Packed Slip Expansion Joints:
Expansion joints shall be slip type containing injectable packing ports, allowing additional packing to be added under full line pressure.
Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
        Hyspan Precision Products, Inc.
        Or Engineer approved equal.
Expansion joints shall be capable of 150 psi steam working pressure and 300 degrees F temperature.
Features: Provide expansion joints with the following:
      One-piece body conforming to ASTM A53/A53M, Grade B.  Slip tube shall be hard-chrome plated, 0.802-inch thick, in accordance with ASTM B650.
      Graphite injectable packing and seals.
      Internal and external aluminum bronze guides, conforming to ASTM B169.
      360-degree, stainless steel extension limit stop on each slip tube.  Slip tube shall be Schedule 80 carbon steel pipe conforming to ASTM A53/A53M Grade B pipe through 16-inch diameter internal pipe size (IPS).
      Provide drain port.
NTS:  As an alternate to flanges specified in Paragraph "f", plain-end (welded) and grooved ("Victaulic-Style") ends are available.  Edit Paragraph "f" to suit the project.
      End-connections shall be flanged, ASTM A105 raised face slip-on or flat faced.
      Coat non-chromed internal and external surfaces with 0.008-inch dry-film thickness of Tnemec Potapox epoxy coating.
Expansion joint minimum travel shall be four inches axially, and shall allow 0.5-inch expansion.
Expansion joint full stroke life cycle shall be minimum of 20,000 full strokes.
NTS:  Expansion joints specified in Paragraph "D" below for sludge piping applications withstand harsh service and grit, which can adversely affect rubber-type expansion joints and bellows-style expansion joints.
In Paragraph "D.1", below, insert at No. 1 and 2 the appropriate model number.  For Dresser, typically use "Style 63" and specify "type ___".  For Smith-Blair, typically use "Model 611" or "Model 612".
Consult with specified manufacturers and edit paragraph "D" to suit the project.
Expansion Joints  -  Sludge Piping
Products and Manufacturers: Provide one of the following:
      Style (--1--), by Dresser Piping Specialties, part of Dresser, Inc.
      Model (--2--), by Smith-Blair, Inc.
      Or Engineer approved equal.
Features: Sludge piping expansion joints shall have:
       a.	Suitable packing acceptable for temperatures greater than 212 degrees F.
NTS:  Insert at No. 1 the material.  Expansion joints are available in a variety of materials; consult with manufacturers for alternatives.  Edit Paragraph "c" as required to coordinate with material selected in paragraph "b".
      Body Material: (--1--).
      Linings and Coatings:
Where sludge expansion joints are installed in glass lined pipe, expansion joint slip pipe shall be glass lined.  Where pipes are not glass lined, slip pipe and interior of expansion joint body shall be lined with coal tar epoxy.
Coat interior of expansion joint body with coal tar epoxy.  
Exterior surface of slip pipe in contact with packing during movement shall be chrome-plated machined surface.
MISCELLANEOUS SPECIALTIES AND ACCESSORIES
Dielectric Connections:
General: Where copper pipe connects to steel pipe, cast-iron pipe, or ductile iron pipe, provide either dielectric union or an insulating section of rubber or plastic pipe.  When used, insulating section shall have minimum length of 12 pipe diameters. 
Manufacturers: Provide products of one of the following:
      Epco Sales, Inc.
      Watts Regulator Company.
      Capitol Manufacturing Company.
      Or Engineer approved equal.
NTS:  Edit Paragraphs "3" and "4" to suit the project.
Dielectcric Unions: Rated for 250 psi, ANSI B16.39.
Insulating Sections: Rated for same pressure as associated piping test pressure.  Material shall be suitable for the application and service.
PAINTING
Shop Painting:
Clean and prime-coat ferrous metal surfaces of products in the manufacturer's shop in accordance with Section 09 97 43, Coating Systems for Water and Wastewater Facilities, unless otherwise specified in this Section
Coat machined, polished and non-ferrous surfaces bearing surfaces and similar unpainted surfaces with corrosion prevention compound that shall be maintained during storage and until products are placed into operation.
Field painting shall conform to Section 09 97 43, Coating Systems for Water and Wastewater Facilities.
EXECUTION
INSPECTION
Inspect materials for defects in material and workmanship.  Verify compatibility of products with pipe, fittings, valves, and appurtenances.
INSTALLATION
Installation:
Install piping specialties in accordance with the Contract Documents and manufacturer's instructions.
Refer to Piping Installation Sections.
Adjust expansion joints as required to ensure that expansion joints will be fully extended when ambient temperature is at minimum operating temperature, and fully compressed at maximum operating temperature for the system in which expansion joints are installed.
+ + END OF SECTION + +

 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY UTILITIES
DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
Table of Contents
June 2015

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page

BOOK 1 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (GR)
Chapter GR1 Acronyms and Definitions
GR1.01 Purpose

1

GR1.02 Acronyms

1

GR1.03 Definitions

2

Chapter GR2 Introduction
GR02.01 Purpose

1

GR2.02 City Utilities

1

1. City Utilities Engineering (CUE)

2

2. Development Services (DVS)

2

3. Geographic Information Systems (GIS)

2

GR2.03 Description and Use of the Standards

2

GR2.04 Structure of the Design Manual

3

GR2.05 Updates to the Manual

3

GR2.06 Enforcement of Standards & Penalties

3

GR2.07 Topics Not Included

3

GR2.08 Other Resource Documents

3

Chapter GR3 Variances
GR3.01 Purpose

1

GR3.02 Authority to Approve Variances

1

GR3.03 Types of Variances

1

GR3.04 Technical Variance Procedures

2

1. Variance Request Form

2

2. Variance Application

2

3. Variance Decision

2

GR3.05 Technical Variance Appeals
1. Appeal Review

3

2. Appeal Filing

3

GR3.06 Materials Variance Procedures
June 1, 2015

3

3
1

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

1. Variance Request Form

3

2. Variance Application

4

3. Variance Decision

4

GR3.07 Material Variance Appeals

4

1. Appeal Filing

4

2. Appeal Review

4

Chapter GR4 Contract, Fees, and Permits
GR4.01 Purpose

1

GR4.02 Developer Contracts

1

GR4.03 Fees

1

GR4.04 Permit Responsibility

1

GR4.05 Permit Compliance with Other Standards

1

GR4.06 DVS Permits

2

1. Application Forms

2

2. Exemptions

2

3. Expiration of Permits

2

4. Changes to Application Information

2

GR4.07 Other Permits

2

Chapter GR5 Project Coordination
GR5.01 Purpose

1

GR5.02 Services Offered by DVS

1

1. Information

1

2. Conceptual Review

1

3. Construction Drawings Approval

1

GR5.03 Coordination with Other City Departments

June 1, 2015

2

1. CUE Projects

2

2. Environmental Assessment

2

GR5.04 Environmental Assessment

2

GR5.05 Sustainable Infrastructure Design and Implementation

2

GR5.06 Utility Coordination

3

GR5.07 General Submittal Requirements

3

GR5.08 Professional Certification

4
2

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

GR5.09 Review and Approval Process

4

1. CUE Projects

4

2. DVS Projects

4

GR5.10 Opinions of Probable Project Cost for CUE Projects

4

GR5.11 Life Cycle Cost (LCC)

5

GR5.12 American with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG)

5

Chapter GR6 Survey
GR6.01 Purpose

1

GR6.02 General

1

GR6.03 Survey Notification

1

GR6.04 Damage

2

GR6.05 Horizontal and Vertical Control

2

1. U.S. Survey Foot

2

2. Trees

2

3. Guidelines

2

4. Datum

2

5. Location Witness

3

6. Vandalized Survey Project Points and Bench Marks

3

7. Degree of Accuracy

3

8. Control Points

4

GR6.06 Requirements for Survey Information and Data Collection
1. Area to be Surveyed

6

2. Physical Features to be Identified

6

3. Survey Information Needed for Trees

7

4. Field Profile Requirements

7

5. Cross sections

7

6. Subsurface and Overhead Utilities

7

7. Summary of Topographic Survey Elements

8

GR6.07 Special Surveys and Topographical Information

10

1. Property Surveys

10

2. Railroad and Highway Surveys

10

GR6.08 Deliverables and Submittals
June 1, 2015

6

11
3

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

GR6.09 Construction Staking

12

Chapter GR7 Easements
GR7.01 Purpose

1

GR7.02 Existing Easements

1

GR7.03 Types of Interest in Real Property for City Utilities Projects

1

1. Fee Simple Title

1

2. Sanitary Sewer, Stormwater Drainage, and Potable Water Permanent
Easements

2

3. Temporary Construction Easement

2

GR7.04 Easement Widths

3

GR7.05 Construction Plan Requirements

4

GR7.06 Easement Description Criteria

4

1. General Description Elements

4

2. When Multiple Descriptions are Required

5

3. Aliquot Descriptions

5

4. Perimeter Descriptions

5

GR7.07 Easement Plat Criteria

6

1. General Requirements

6

2. Release of Easement

7

GR7.08 Easements on Railroad Rights-of-Way

7

GR7.09 Easement Encroachments

7

1. Easement Encroachment Agreements
GR7.10 Execution of Easement Documents

7

1. Easement Document Submittals

7

GR7.11 Property Acquisition Summary Sheet

June 1, 2015

7

8

1. Parcel Numbers

8

2. Owner’s Name

8

3. Property Address

8

4. Sheet Number

9

5. Source of Title

9

6. Area of Easements

9

7. Remarks

9
4

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

8. Easement Document Number

9

Chapter GR8 Subsurface Investigation
GR8.01 Purpose

1

GR8.02 Right of Access

1

GR8.03 Protection of Underground Structures and Utilities

2

GR8.04 Safety

2

GR8.05 Restoration

2

GR8.06 Geotechnical Borings

2

1. Methods and Equipment

2

2. Location, Frequency and Depth Requirements for Soundings and Borings

3

3. Laboratory Analyses

3

4. Report Development and Drafting

4

GR8.07 Pavement Cores

5

GR8.08 Potholing/Daylighting

5

1. Standard Guidelines

5

2. Potholing Report

5

GR8.09 Soil Infiltration Testing

6

1. Test pits (deep holes) for Infiltration Testing

6

2. Acquiring Design Infiltration Rate from Infiltration Testing

6

3. Methodology for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Field Test

7

4. Equipment for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Test

7

5. Procedure for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Test

7

6. Methodology for Percolation Test

8

7. Procedure for Percolation Test

8

8. Hotspot Investigation Procedures (For Preliminary Planning)

11

Chapter GR9 Energy Efficiency

June 1, 2015

GR9.01 Purpose

1

GR9.02 Requirements

1

GR9.03 Fixture Requirements

1

GR9.04 Space Control

2

GR9.05 Lighting Control

3

GR9.06 Lighting Power Densities – Space-by-Space Method

3
5

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

GR9.07 Exit Signs

4

GR9.08 Exterior Lighting Control

4

GR9.09 Records of Fixture Replacement or Additions

5

Chapter GR10 Final Record Drawings
GR10.01 Purpose

1

GR10.02 Documentation and Approval Process

1

1. CUE Projects

1

2. DVS Projects

1

GR10.03 Drawing Information

2

1. CUE Projects

2

2. DVS Projects

2

GR10.04 Drawing Requirements

3

1. Survey Data

3

2. Survey Accuracy

3

3. Record Drawing Content

3

Chapter GR11 Life Cycle Cost
GR11.01 Purpose

1

GR11.02 Life Cycle Cost Methodology

1

1. Present Worth Analysis

1

2. Inflation and Discount Rates

1

3. Construction Costs Data Sources

1

4. Operation and Maintenance Data Source

2

5. Salvage Value

2

6. Life Cycle Cost Computations

2

7. Fixed Worksheet Cell Values

2

GR11.03 Gravity Sewer Option – Life Cycle Analysis

June 1, 2015

2

1. Design Life

2

2. Initial Construction

2

3. Operation and Maintenance

3

4. Salvage Value

3

6

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

GR11.04 Lift Station Option – Life Cycle Analysis

Table of Contents

3

1. Design Life and Replacement Schedules

3

2. Initial Construction

4

3. Operation and Maintenance

4

4. Power Usage

5

5. Communications

5

GR11.05 Low Pressure Sewer Option – Life Cycle Analysis –
Septic Elimination ONLY

5

1. Design Life and Replacement Schedules

5

2. Initial Construction

6

3. Operation and Maintenance

6

4. Power Usage

6

BOOK 2- STORMWATER (SW)
Chapter SW1 Acronyms and Definitions
SW1.01 Purpose

1

SW1.02 Acronyms

1

SW1.03 Definitions

3

Chapter SW2 Introduction
SW2.01 Purpose

1

SW2.02 Applicability

1

SW2.03 Variance from Standards

1

SW2.04 Organization of Stormwater Standards

1

SW2.05 Stormwater Materials

2

SW2.06 Stormwater Specifications

2

Chapter SW3 Drawings and Submittals

June 1, 2015

SW3.01 Purpose

1

SW3.02 Stormwater Management Requirements

1

1. Minimum Plant Sheet Elements

1

2. Stormwater Management Report

2

3. Operations and Maintenance Manual (O&M)

3

7

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

SW3.03 Erosion Control Submittal Requirements

Table of Contents

3

1. Construction Plan Elements

3

2. Construction Components

4

Chapter SW4 Special Discharges
SW4.01 Purpose

1

SW4.02 Stormwater Policies

1

1. Sump pumps

1

2. Geothermal

1

3. Curb outlets

1

4. Environmental Catch Basins

1

5. Dumpster Leaks

2

SW4.03 Floodplain Ordinance

2

SW4.04 City of Fort Wayne Ordinance

2

Chapter SW5 Hydrology
SW5.01 Purpose

1

SW5.02 Rainfall

1

1. Rainfall Distributions

3

2. Design Storm Frequencies

3

SW5.03 Runoff

4

1. Time of Concentration Calculation

4

2. Peak Flow Calculations

4

3. Hydrograph Generation Methods

6

SW5.04 Offsite Hydrologic Analysis

7

Chapter SW6 Storm Sewers
SW6.01 Purpose

1

SW6.02 Design Storms

1

1. Minor Event Design Storm

1

2. Major Event Design Storm

1

SW6.03 Alignment Criteria

June 1, 2015

2

1. Placement in Existing Rights-of-Way and Easement

2

2. Minimum Distance from Water Lines

3
8

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

3. Minimum Distance from Additional Utilities
SW6.04 Hydraulic Design

Table of Contents

3
3

1. Flow Equations and Storm Sewer Sizing

3

2. Hydraulic Grade Line

4

3. Headlosses

4

4. Velocity

5

5. Slopes

5

SW6.05 Construction Materials

6

SW6.06 Pipe Size

6

SW6.07 Manholes

6

1. Manholes

6

2. Spacing

6

3. Manhole Diameter

6

4. Transition Alignment

7

5. Transitions in Grade

7

6. Transition in Pipe Diameter

7

7. Bench

8

8. Adjustment Rings

8

SW6.08 Outlets
1. Erosion Protection at Outlets

8
8

SW6.09 Non-Gravity Flow Stormwater Systems

9

SW6.10 Checklists and Design Aids

9

Chapter SW7 Inlets

June 1, 2015

SW7.01 Purpose

1

SW7.02 Standard Inlets

1

SW7.03 Inlet Placement

1

SW7.04 Inlet Hydraulic Capacity

3

1. Introduction

3

2. Sump Condition

3

3. Continuous Grade Condition

4

SW7.05 Gutter Flow

8

1. Introduction

8
9

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

2. Allowable Use of Streets for Stormwater Flows

8

3. Gutter Flow Capacity

9

Chapter SW8 Culverts
SW8.01 Purpose

1

SW8.02 General Design

1

1. Federal Highway Administration

1

2. Indiana Department of Transportation

1

SW8.03 Hydraulic Design

1

1. Design Program

1

2. Backwater

1

3. Overland Flow Routes

2

4. Minimum Diameter

2

5. Flow Velocity

2

SW8.04 Design Storm (see Section 3, Hydrology)

June 1, 2015

1. Public Culverts

2

2. Private Culverts

2

SW8.05 Sump Culverts

2

SW8.06 Structural Design

3

1. Loading

3

2. Installation Depth

3

3. Bedding and Backfill

3

4. Floatation and Anchoring

3

SW8.07 Culvert Length Determination

3

SW8.08 Inlet and Outlet Configuration

3

1. Roadside Safety

4

2. Trash Racks

4

3. Erosion Control

4

SW8.09 Environmental Considerations

4

SW8.10 Permitting

4

1. Public Agencies

4

SW8.11 Culvert Materials

5

10

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

Chapter SW9 Open Channels
SW9.01 Purpose

1

1. Natural Channels

1

2. Constructed Channels

1

SW9.02 Channel Geometrics

1

1. V Shaped Channels

1

2. Swales

1

3. Trapezoidal Channels

2

4. Composite Channel

2

SW9.03 Channel Side Slopes

2

SW9.04 Channel Slope

2

SW9.05 Channel Linings

3

1. Grass Lined Channels

3

2. Riprap or Rock Lined Channels

3

3. Concrete Lined Channels

4

4. Manufactured Linings

4

SW9.06 Easements

4

SW9.07 Public Safety

4

SW9.08 General Design Requirements

4

1. Design Storm

4

2. Channel Lining and Stability

5

3. Channel Slope (Gradient)

5

SW9.09 Hydraulic Design

5

1. Uniform Steady Flow Equations

5

2. Flow Regime

6

SW9.10 Permitting

7

Chapter SW10 Crossings

June 1, 2015

SW10.01 Purpose

1

SW10.02 General Design Considerations

1

1. Jurisdictional Agencies

1

2. Hydraulic Capacity

1
11

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

3. Minimum Pipe Diameter

1

4. Structural Design

1

5. Skew Angle

1

6. Culvert Length

1

SW10.03 Roadway Crossing Design

2

1. Hydraulic Design

2

SW10.04 Length Design

2

1. General

2

2. Regulated Drain Crossings

2

3. Length Calculations for Perpendicular Crossings of Roadways or Railroads

2

4. Length Calculations for Skewed Crossings of Roadways or Railroads

2

SW10.05 Roadway Safety

3

1. Clear Zone

3

2. Guardrail and Handrail

3

SW10.06 Construction

3

1. Traffic Control

3

2. Open Trench Installation / Jacking and Boring

3

SW10.07 Permitting

3

1. Private Agencies

3

2. Public Agencies

3

Chapter SW11 Stormwater Management
SW11.01 Purpose

1

SW11.02 Stormwater Management Plans (SMP) for New Development

1

SW11.03 Stormwater Management Plans (SMP) for Redevelopments

2

SW11.04 Acceptable Stormwater Quality Calculation Methods

4

SW11.05 Reduced Runoff Method for Stormwater Quality Calculations

4

SW11.06 Volume Based Method Stormwater Quality Calculations

5

SW11.07 SCS Method for Proprietary Stormwater Quality Units (SQUs)

6

SW11.08 Stormwater Detention Calculations

7

1. Rational Method

7

2. Hydrograph Method

7

SW11.09 Acceptable Types of Stormwater Storage Facilities
June 1, 2015

7
12

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

SW11.10 Design Standards for Detention and Retention Basins
1. Grading Requirements

8

2. Use of Retaining Walls

8

3. Emergency Spillway

8

4. Freeboard

9

5. Minimum Flood Protection Grade

9

6. Pipe Outfalls into the Basin

9

7. Stormwater Basin Control Structures

10

8. Public Protection Guidelines

10

9. Landscaping Guidelines

11

10. Multi use configuration

11

SW11.11 Stormwater Pretreatment

11

1. Forebays

11

2. Biofilters

13

SW11.12 Design Standards Unique to Wet Basins

14

1. Design Considerations

15

2. Operation and Maintenance Manual Considerations

16

SW11.13 Design Standards Unique to Dry Basins

16

1. Design Considerations

17

2. Operation and Maintenance Manual Considerations

17

SW11.14 Design Standards for Retention Basins

18

SW11.15 Design Standards for Constructed Wetlands

19

1. Design Considerations

19

2. Operation and Maintenance Considerations

21

SW11.16 Design Standards for Constructed Bioretention Basins

22

1. Design Considerations

22

2. Operation and Maintenance Considerations

23

SW11.17 Design Standards for Water Quality Swales

24

1. Design Considerations

25

2. Operation and Maintenance Considerations

25

SW11.18 Design Standards Stormwater Basins Adjoining Open Channels
June 1, 2015

8

26
13

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

SW11.19 Design Standards for Parking Lot Detention

Table of Contents

27

1. Depth Limitations

27

2. Parking Lot Detention

27

3. Outlet Configuration

27

4. Surcharging

28

5. Parking Lot Maintenance

28

SW11.20 Design Standards for Underground Detention

28

1. Materials

28

2. Configuration

28

3. Basin Control Structure Configuration

28

4. Maintenance Access

29

SW11.21 Porous Pavement System Requirements

29

1. Components

29

2. Site Requirements

29

3. Storage Volume

29

4. Outlet

29

5. Maintenance

29

6. Design Considerations for Stormwater Quality

30

7. Operation and Maintenance Considerations

31

SW11.22 Design Standards for Rainwater Harvesting Methods

31

1. Design requirements

32

2. Operation and Maintenance Considerations

32

Chapter SW12 Erosion Control

June 1, 2015

SW12.01 Purpose

1

SW12.02 Authority

1

SW12.03 Principles

1

SW12.04 Regulatory and Technical Standards

2

SW12.05 Best Management Practices

3

1. A Minimum 50 foot Buffer

2

2. Site Phasing

3

3. Topsoil Stockpiling

4
14

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

4. Site Management

5

5. Temporary Construction Entrance

5

6. Street Maintenance

5

7. Concrete Washout Area

5

8. Contaminated Material Maintenance

5

9. Bank and Pipe Stabilization

6

10. Detention and Post Construction Water Quality BMP Sequencing

6

11. Inlet Protection

6

12. Temporary Perimeter Protection – Silt Fence

7

13. Temporary Perimeter Protection – Filter Sock

7

14. Sediment Control Dewatering Bag

7

15. River/Lake Shore Protection

8

16. Erosion Control Blanket

8

17. Straw Bales

8

18. Temporary Rock Check Dams

8

19. BMP Operation and Maintenance Manual

9

SW12.06 Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPP)
1. SWPP Submittals and Approvals

9
9

2. Amending an Existing SWPP

10

3. SWPP Procedural Steps

10

SW12.07 Inspections

12

SW12.08 Enforcement

12

BOOK 3 - SANITARY (SA)
Chapter SA1 Acronyms and Definitions
SA1.01 Purpose

1

SA1.02 Acronyms

1

SA1.03 Definitions

2

Chapter SA2 Introduction

June 1, 2015

SA2.01 Purpose

1

SA2.02 Applicability

1

SA2.03 Variance from Standards

1

15

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

SA2.04 Organization of Sanitary Standards

1

SA2.05 Sanitary Materials

2

SA2.06 Sanitary Specifications

2

SA2.07 Compliance with Other Standards

2

Chapter SA3 Special Discharges
SA3.01 Purpose

1

SA3.02 Connections

1

SA3.03 Ownership and Maintenance

1

SA3.04 Septic Tank Elimination

1

Chapter SA4 Drawings and Submittals
SA4.01 Purpose

1

SA4.02 Sewers

1

1. Conceptual Review

1

2. Capacity Availability Notification

2

3. Construction Documents

2

4. Construction Documents Approval

2

SA4.03 Building Sewers

2

1. Residential

2

2. Non- Residential

3

SA4.04 Lift Stations

3

1. Conceptual Review

4

2. Final Design

5

SA4.05 Permits, Fees, and Contracts

6

Chapter SA5 Sewer Design
SA5.01 Purpose

June 1, 2015

1

1. Basic Elements of Design

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

SA5.02 General Improvement Location Criteria

1

SA5.03 Horizontal Alignment Criteria

2

1. Placement in Existing Right-of-Way

2

2. Placement Outside of Existing Right-of-Way

2
16

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

3. Minimum Horizontal Separation from Water Mains

3

4. Rear Lot Alignment

4

5. Minimum Distance from Utilities Other than Water Mains

4

6. Minimum Distance from Structures

4

7. Location in Relation to Streams and Waterways

4

SA5.04 Vertical Alignment Criteria

4

1. Sewer Depths

4

2. Minimum Vertical Separation from Water Mains

5

3. Stream and Waterway Crossings

6

SA5.05 Pipe Bedding

6

SA5.06 Pipe Materials

6

SA5.07 Design Flow

6

1. Average Daily Flow (ADF)

6

2. Peak Design Flow

7

3. Flow Metering

7

SA5.08 Hydraulic Design Criteria

8

1. Velocity

8

2. Slopes

8

3. Changes in Sewer Size

9

4. Minimization of Solids Deposition

10

SA5.09 Downstream Capacity Evaluation

10

1. Available Data/Information

10

2. Additional Data/Information

10

3. Inadequate Downstream Capacity

11

SA5.10 Sewer Pipe Criteria

June 1, 2015

Table of Contents

11

1. Sewer Pipe Design

11

2. Flotation

12

3. Anchors

12

4. Concrete Encasement

12

5. Railroad Crossings

13

6. Highway Crossings

14

7. Jacking and Boring

15
17

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

SA5.11 Inverted Siphons

15

SA5.12 Connection of New Sewers to Existing Sewers

16

Chapter SA6 Building Sewer and Appurtenances
SA6.01 Purpose

1

1. Plumbing Codes

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

4. Prohibited Connections

1

SA6.02 Buildings Serviced

2

1. Separate Building Sewer

2

2. Gravity Sewer Service

2

3. Non-Gravity Sewer Service

2

SA6.03 Building Sewer Location, Length and Spacing

2

1. Location

2

2. Distance of Building Sewer from Property Line

3

3. Spacing Between Adjacent Building Sewers

3

SA6.04 Building Sewers Crossing Drainage Ways

3

SA6.05 Hydraulic Design Criteria

3

1. Minimum Slopes
SA6.06 Building Sewer Pipe
1. Size

3

2. Depth

3

3. Material

3

4. Bedding

4

5. Backfill

4

6. Applied Loads

4

SA6.07 Building Sewer Appurtenances

June 1, 2015

3

4

1. Cleanouts

4

2. Grease Interceptors and Sand/Oil Separators

4

3. Control Manholes

6

SA6.08 Building Sewer Connection to Main Line Sewer

6

SA6.09 Low Pressure Sewer Connection to Main Line Sewer

7
18

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

SA6.10 Connections Using an Existing Building Sewer

7

SA6.11 Future Connections

7

SA6.12 Proper Abandonment of Building Sewer

7

Chapter SA7 Manhole Design
SA7.01 Purpose

1

SA7.02 Manholes

1

1. General

1

2. Location

1

3. Manhole Spacing

2

4. Manhole Dimensions

2

5. Manhole Castings

4

6. Cleanout Castings

4

7. Standard Manholes

4

8. Flow Channel

5

9. U-Shaped Bench

5

10. Protection Against Ponding and Inflow/Infiltration

5

11. Watertight Bolt-Down Construction

5

12. Buoyancy

6

13. Connections

6

14. Casting Adjustment

6

Chapter SA8 Lift Station and Force Main Design
SA8.01 Purpose
1. Discussion of Lift Station Justification and Life Cycle Cost Analysis

1

2. Basic Elements of Design

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

SA8.02 Lift Station Justification and Life Cycle Cost Analysis
1. Life Cycle Cost Analysis
SA8.03 Lift Station Location Criteria

June 1, 2015

1

1
2
2

1. Adequate Access

2

2. Protection Against Flooding

2

3. Parking Requirements

2

4. Lighting Requirements

2
19

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

5. Required Lift Station Items

3

6. Optional Lift Station Items

3

SA8.04 Lift Station Type

3

SA8.05 Lift Station Hydraulic Design

4

1. Pumping Capacity

4

2. Initial Pumping Capacity

4

3. Total Dynamic Head Calculations

4

4. Pump Selection

6

5. Net Positive Suction Head Available (NPSHA )

6

SA8.06 Pump Design Criteria
1. Pump Openings

7

2. Intake

7

3. Pump Guide Rail System

7

SA8.07 Wet Well Design

8

1. Wet Well Sizing

8

2. Buoyancy

8

3. Floor Slope

9

4. Connection to Wet Well

9

5. Hydrogen Sulfide Protection

9

SA8.08 Electrical Design Criteria

9

1. Codes and Standards

9

2. Phase, Starters and Voltage Selection

9

SA8.09 Telemetry

10

1. General Telemetry

10

2. Propagation Study

10

3. Typical Antenna Mounting Methods (in order of preference)

10

SA8.10 Operating Set Points

11

1. Control Settings

11

2. High Water Alarm

11

3. Alarm Beacon Light

11

SA8.11 Valve Vaults, Combination Air Valve Structures, and Meter Vaults
1. Valve Vault
June 1, 2015

7

11
11
20

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

2. Combination Air Valve Structure

11

3. Meter Vault and Sample Point Structure

12

SA8.12 Valves, Meters, and By-Pass Connection

12

1. Valve orientation

12

2. Check Valves

12

3. Plug Valves

12

4. Combination Air Release/Vacuum Valves

13

5. Metering Equipment

13

6. By-Pass Connection

13

SA8.13 Ventilation of Structures

13

SA8.14 Emergency Operation

13

1. General

13

2. Automatic Transfer Switches

14

3. Manual Transfer Switches

14

4. Portable Generator Receptacles

14

SA8.15 Force Main Design Criteria

14

1. General

14

2. Force Main Pressure and Surge Analysis (Water Hammer)

15

3. Hydrogen Sulfide Prevention/Odor Control

15

Chapter SA9 Low Pressure Sewer Systems

June 1, 2015

SA9.01 Purpose

1

SA9.02 Low Pressure Sewer System Service Area

1

SA9.03 Responsibility

1

SA9.04 System Design and Layout

1

1. Pipe Size

2

2. Overall System Design/Layout

2

3. Cleanouts

2

4. Air Release Valves

2

5. Building Sewer Connection

2

6. Low Pressure Common Force Main Connection to Manhole

3

SA9.05 Maximum Connections to Grinder Pump Stations

3

SA9.06 Grinder Pump Type

3
21

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

1. Positive Displacement Pumps

3

2. Semi-Positive Displacement Pumps

3

3. Centrifugal Pumps

3

SA9.07 Grinder Pump Station Equipment

3

1. Grinder Pump Station

3

2. Manufacturer

4

3. Pumps

4

4. Electrical Motor and Level Controls

4

5. Control Panels

4

6. Generator Hook Up

4

BOOK 4 - WATER (W)
Chapter W1 Acronyms and Definitions
W1.01 Purpose

1

W1.02 Acronyms

1

W1.03 Definitions

2

Chapter W2 Introduction
W2.01 Purpose

1

W2.02 Applicability

1

W2.03 Variance from Standards

1

W2.04 Organization of Water Standards

1

W2.05 Water Materials

2

W2.06 Water Specifications

2

W2.07 Compliance with Other Standards

2

Chapter W3 Special Requirements
W3.01 Purpose

1

W3.02 Water Service Accounts

1

W3.03 Ownership and Maintenance

1

Chapter W4 Drawings and Submittals
W4.01 Purpose

1

W4.02 Water Mains

1

1. Conceptual Site Plans

June 1, 2015

1

22

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

2. Development Plans

1

3. Construction Documents Approval

1

W4.03 Water Services

2

1. Residential Water Service

2

2. Non-Residential Water Service

2

3. Fire Service

2

W4.04 Permits, Fees, and Contracts

2

1. Local Permits

2

2. State Permits

3

3. Fees

3

4. Contracts

3

Chapter W5 Water Main Design
W5.01 Purpose
1. Basic Elements of Design

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

W5.02 General Improvement Location Criteria

1

W5.03 Horizontal Alignment Criteria

2

1. Placement in Existing Right-of-Way

2

2. Placement Outside of Existing Right-of-Way

2

3. Minimum Horizontal Separation from Sewers

3

4. Minimum Distance from Buildings

3

5. Minimum Distance from Storage Tanks

3

6. Minimum Distance from Liquid Petroleum and High Pressure Piping

4

7. Minimum Distances from Utilities Other than Sewers

4

8. Minimum Distance from Potential Contamination Sources

4

9. Location in Relation to Streams and Waterways

5

10. Allowable Horizontal Pipe Deflection

5

11. Angle of Intersection

5

W5.04 Vertical Alignment Criteria
1. Minimum Depth of Cover
June 1, 2015

1

6
6
23

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

2. Minimum Vertical Separation from Sewers

6

3. Air Release Structures

6

4. Stream and Waterway Crossings

6

5. Allowable Vertical Pipe Deflection

7

W5.05 Pipe Bedding and Backfill

7

W5.06 Pipe Materials

7

W5.07 Design Flow

7

1. Design Demand

7

2. Maximum Daily Demand

8

3. Fire Flow
W5.08 Hydraulic Design Criteria

10
11

1. Pressure and Flow Rate

11

2. Velocity

11

3. Data Requirements

12

4. Hydraulic Calculations

12

5. Translation of Flow Test Results

14

6. Existing Water Main Conditions

14

7. Most Remote Tests

14

8. Water Main Over-sizing

15

W5.09 Water Main Pipe Requirements

15

W5.10 Joint Restraint

15

1. Restrained Joint Location Requirements

15

2. Restrained Joint Calculations

16

3. Restrained Joint Materials

16

W5.11 Casing Pipe

16

1. Casing Pipe Requirements

16

2. Casing End Seals

17

3. Casing Spacers

17

W5.12 Infrastructure Crossings

June 1, 2015

Table of Contents

17

1. Railroad Crossings

17

2. Highway Crossings

18

24

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

Chapter W6 Building Services
W6.01 Purpose

1

1. Plumbing Codes

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

W6.02 Service Lines

1

1. Sizing Water Service Lines

1

2. Service Requirements

1

W6.03 Services 2” and Less

2

1. Corporation Stops

2

2. Curb Stops

2

3. Metering

2

W6.04 Services Greater Than 2”

2

1. Connection

3

2. Metering

3

W6.05 Service Meters

3

1. Meter Requirements

3

2. Bypass Requirements

3

W6.06 Connections Using an Existing Building Service

4

W6.07 Future Connections

4

Chapter W7 Appurtenances
W7.01 Purpose

1

W7.02 Valves

1

1. Valve Location

1

2. Valve Requirements

1

W7.03 Fire Hydrants

June 1, 2015

2

1. Hydrant Requirements

2

2. Assembly Configurations

2

3. Drainage

2

4. Location

2

5. Protection

3

6. End Points of Water Mains

3
25

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

W7.04 Fittings

Table of Contents

3

1. Water Main Crossing Connection

3

2. Water Main Deflection

3

W7.05 Air Release Valves

4

W7.06 Blow-Off Assemblies

4

W7.07 Temporary Test Risers

4

W7.08 Tracing Wire

4

W7.09 Polyethylene Wrap (Polywrap)

4

Chapter W8 Backflow Prevention
W8.01 Purpose
1. Codes

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

W8.02 Submittals and Approvals

1

W8.03 Backflow Prevention Requirements

1

1. By Order of IDEM

2

2. By Order of City Utilities

2

3. New Construction

2

4. Existing Facilities

3

5. Existing Facilities with a Cross Connection

3

W8.04 Backflow Prevention Exemption

3

W8.05 Types of Backflow Prevention

3

1. Air Gap (AG)

4

2. Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker (AVB)

4

3. Pressure Vacuum Breaker (PVB)

4

4. Double Check Valves (DC)

5

5. Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Preventer (RP)

6

W8.06 Appropriate Use of Backflow Prevention Devices

6

W8.07 Installation Requirements

7

1. Location

7

2. Multiple Services

7

W8.08 Inspection Requirements
June 1, 2015

1

7
26

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

W8.09 Inspection Reporting

8

W8.10 Disconnection/Removal/Bypass

8

Chapter W9 Fire Protection
W9.01 Purpose

1

1. Codes

1

2. Covered in this Chapter

1

3. Covered in Other Chapters

1

W9.02 Submittals and Approvals

1

W9.03 General Requirements

1

W9.04 Service Line Separation

2

W9.05 Meters

2

1. Meter Requirements

2

2. Bypass Requirements

2

W9.06 Appurtenances

2

1. General

2

2. Backflow Prevention Device

3

3. Post Indicator Valve

3

4. Fire Booster Pump

3

5. On-Site Water Storage

3

W9.07 Installation and Inspection

3

1. Installation

3

2. Inspection

3

BOOK 5 - MATERIALS (MA)
Chapter MA1 Acronyms and Definitions
MA1.01 Purpose

1

MA1.02 Acronyms

1

MA1.03 Definitions

2

Chapter MA2 Introduction
MA2.01 Purpose

1

MA2.02 Description and Use

1

1. Compliance with other Standards

June 1, 2015

1

27

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

2. Conflicting Standards

1

3. Minimum Material Standards

1

4. Non-Standard Materials

1

MA2.03 Material Installation Testing Requirements

1

MA2.04 Master Specifications

2

MA2.05 Additional References

2

MA2.06 City Utilities Standard Details

2

Chapter MA3 Certification of Materials
MA3.01 Purpose

1

MA3.02 Referenced Standards

1

MA3.03 Quality

2

1. Quality Assurance

2

2. Quality Control

2

MA3.04 Material Markings

3

MA3.05 Material Submittals

3

1. Design Submittals

3

2. Construction Submittals

3

MA3.06 Pilot Projects

4

Chapter MA4 Common Materials and Testing Requirements
MA4.01 Purpose

1

MA4.02 Erosion Control

1

1. Quality Assurance

1

2. Site Preparation

1

3. Concrete Washout Area

4

4. Erosion Control Blankets

4

5. Temporary Rock Check Dams

5

6. Temporary Inlet Protection

6

7. Temporary Sediment Trap

8

8. Temporary Sediment Control Dewatering Bag

8

9. Coir Logs for Temporary River/Lake Shore Protection

9

MA4.03 Temporary Fencing
1. Temporary 48-inch Construction Fence
June 1, 2015

9
9
28

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

MA4.04 Concrete

9

1. Quality Assurance

10

2. Field Quality Control

11

3. Cementations Material

12

4. Aggregates

12

5. Water

12

6. Concrete Admixtures

12

7. Proportioning and Design of Mixes

13

8. Forms

14

9. Reinforcing Materials

15

10. Related Materials

16

11. Grout

19

MA4.05 Bedding and Backfill

20

1. Quality Assurance

20

2. Quality Control

21

3. Native Fill

22

4. Special Backfill

23

5. “B” Borrow

23

6. Bedding

23

7. Flowable FIll

24

8. INDOT Sieve Analysis Requirements

24

MA4.06 Geosynthetics for Earthwork

25

1. Geotextiles for Underdrains

26

2. Cellular Confinement Systems

26

MA4.07 Riprap

27

1. Revetment Riprap

27

2. Hand-Laid Riprap

27

3. Grouted Riprap

27

MA4.08 Paving

June 1, 2015

Table of Contents

28

1. Flexible Paving

28

2. Rigid Paving

28

3. Trench Pavement Repair

28
29

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

4. Permeable Paving

28

5. Curb, Gutters, Sidewalks, Ramps, and Driveways

28

MA4.09 Lawns and Grasses

28

1. Topsoil

29

2. Grass Seed

29

3. Turf Grass Sod

29

4. Fertilizers

29

5. Mulches

29

6. Water

30

MA4.10 Utility Pipe Jacking

30

1. Quality Assurance

30

2. Casing and Jacking Pipe Materials

30

3. Carrier Pipe Materials

30

4. Cover Materials

30

5. Casing End Seals

31

6. Casing Spacers

31

7. Steel Strapping

31

Chapter MA5 Storm Materials and Testing Requirements
MA5.01 Purpose

1

MA5.02 Allowable Pipe Materials and Testing Requirements

1

1. Pipe Testing Requirements

2

2. Quality Assurance

2

3. Field Quality Control

2

MA5.03 Culverts
1. Roadway Culverts

7

2. Driveway Culverts

7

MA5.04 Concrete Pipe

June 1, 2015

7

7

1. Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)

7

2. Horizontal and Vertical Elliptical Pipe (HEP / VEP)

7

3. Concrete Arch Pipe

8

4. Precast Reinforced Box Sections

8

5. Precast Reinforced Three Sided Structures

8
30

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

MA5.05 Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)

9

1. Coating

10

2. Exterior Wrap

10

MA5.06 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe – Non-Pressure

10

1. PVC Pipe

10

2. Profile Wall PVC Pipe

10

MA5.07 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) Pipe - Non-Pressure
1. Dual Wall Corrugated HDPE Pipe
MA5.08 Corrugated Metal Pipe (CMP)

11
11
11

1. Corrugation Patterns

12

2. Joint Systems

12

3. CMP Types

12

MA5.09 Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene (PP) Pipe

13

1. Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)

13

MA5.10 Underdrains

14

1. Underdrain Pipe Materials

14

2. Perforations

14

3. Fine Sediment Protection

14

4. Cleanouts

15

MA5.11 Manholes
1. Pipe Connections to Manhole
MA5.12 Inlet Structures

June 1, 2015

Table of Contents

15
15
16

1. Precast Inlet Structures

16

2. Plastic Inlet Structures

16

MA5.13 Utility Trench Drains

17

MA5.14 End Treatments

17

1. Anchoring

18

2. Energy Dissipation

18

3. High Water Protection-Gates and Check Valves

18

4. Trash Racks

19
31

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

5. Stormwater Basin Outfall

19

MA5.15 Castings Frames and Covers

19

1. Metal Castings

20

2. Adjusting Rings

20

3. Plastic Castings

20

MA5.16 Green Infrastructure

20

1. Bioretention

20

2. Green Roofs

22

3. Cisterns and Rain Barrels

22

4. Inlet and Outlet Controls

22

5. Filters

22

6. Pervious Pavement

23

MA5.17 Underground Stormwater Storage

23

MA5.18 Manufactured Stormwater Quality Units (SQU)

23

MA5.19 Plant List

23

MA5.20 Gabions and Mattress Linings

23

1. Gabion and Mattress Linings General Guidelines

24

Chapter MA6 Sanitary Sewers Materials and Testing Requirements
MA6.01 Purpose

1

MA6.02 Allowable Pipe Materials and Testing Requirements

1

1. Pipe Testing Requirements

1

2. Quality Assurance

2

3. Field Quality Control

2

MA6.03 Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)

7

1. Exterior Coating

7

2. Exterior Wrap

7

MA6.04 Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)
1. Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP)

8

2. Horizontal and Vertical Elliptical Pipe (HEP / VEP)

8

MA6.05 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe- Non-Pressure
1. PVC Pipe

June 1, 2015

7

8
8

32

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

MA6.06 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe – Pressure
1. Pressure PVC Pipe

8

2. Gaskets

9

3. Pipe Material Designation

9

MA6.07 High Density Polyethylene Pipe (HDPE)-Pressure

9

1. Pressure HDPE Pipe

9

2. Pipe Material Designation

9

3. Adaptors

9

MA6.08 Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)
1. Dual Wall Corrugated Polypropylene Pipe (PP)

9
10

MA6.09 Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Pipe

10

MA6.10 Building Sewers and Appurtenances

10

1. Pipe Materials

10

2. Building Connection and Cleanouts

11

3. Grease Interceptor and Sand/Oil Separators

11

4. Inspection Manholes/Non- Metered Control Manhole

11

MA6.11 Manholes

11

1. Quality Assurance

11

2. Sanitary Sewer Manholes

12

3. Joint Exterior

12

4. Metal Castings and Rings

13

5. Manhole Steps

13

6. Poured In Place Manhole Bases

13

7. Resilient Connectors between Manhole Structures and Pipes.

13

MA6.12 Castings, Frames, and Covers

13

1. Sanitary Metal Castings

13

2. Manhole Adjusting Rings and Chimney Seals

14

MA6.13 Sanitary Lift Station Components

June 1, 2015

8

14

1. Duplex Submersible Pump Stations

14

2. Pipe and Valves

17

3. Wet Well, Valve Vaults

17
33

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

4. Station Access Hatches

18

5. Electrical, Controls, and Control Panels

18

Chapter MA7 Water Materials and Testing Requirements
MA7.01 Purpose

1

MA7.02 Allowable Pipe Materials and Testing Requirements

1

1. Pipe Testing Requirements

2

2. Quality Assurance

2

3. Water Main Start-Up Sequencing – Gap Concept

2

4. Field Quality Control

3

MA7.03 Polyvinylchloride (PVC) Pipe – Pressure
1. Pressure PVC Pipe

7

2. Gaskets

7

3. Pipe Material Designation

8

MA7.04 High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) Pipe – Pressure

8

1. Pressure HDPE Pipe

8

2. Pipe Material Designation

8

3. Adaptors

8

MA7.05 Ductile Iron Pipe (DIP)

9

1. Exterior Coating

9

2. Exterior Wrap

9

MA7.06 Concrete Pressure Pipe

9

1. Concrete Pressure Pipe
2. Restrained Joints
MA7.07 Service Connections

June 1, 2015

7

9
10
11

1. Buried Service Identification

11

2. Corporation Stops

12

3. Curb Stops

12

4. Curb Boxes

13

5. Service Tapping Saddles

13

MA7.08 Fire Hydrants and Mainline Valves

13

1. Fire Hydrants

13

2. Mainline Valves

14
34

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

3. Valve Boxes

15

4. Mechanical Joint Bolts

16

MA7.09 Air Release Structures

16

MA7.10 Backflow Prevention

16

MA7.11 Water Meters

16

1. Water Meters

16

2. Water Meter Boxes

16

MA7.12 Water Appurtenances

17

1. Buried Piping Identification

17

2. Polyethylene Wrap

17

3. Restraint Devices for PVC

17

4. Restraint Devices for HDPE

17

5. Fittings

18

BOOK 6 - CADD STANDARDS (CADD)
Chapter CADD1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
CADD1.01 Purpose

1

CADD1.02 Acronyms

1

CADD1.03 Definitions

2

Chapter CADD2 Introduction
CADD2.01 Purpose

1

CADD2.02 Administration

1

1. CADD Standards Scope

1

2. Implementation

1

3. Software Information

1

CADD2.03 Resources Available from CUE

June 1, 2015

2

1. Project Folder Structure Template

2

2. AutoCAD/Civil 3D Templates

2

3. CUE Civil 3D Pipes Catalog

2

4. CUE Civil 3D Corridor Assemblies

2

5. Standard Symbols

2

6. Plot Styles (Pen Settings0

2

35

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

7. CADD Layers

2

8. DWS Standards Files

2

9. Border and Title Block Sheets

2

10. Font and Shape Files

3

11. Line Type Files

3

12. Minimum Electronic CADD Deliverable Checklist

3

Chapter CADD3 Submittals
CADD3.01 Purpose

1

CADD3.02 CADD File Submittal Requirements

1

13. Submittal Methods

1

14. File Format

1

15. Model File Drawing Scale and Units

1

16. Autodesk/Civil 3D Software

1

17. Drawing File Components and Properties

2

18. Support Files

2

19. External References

2

20. Photographed Images

2

21. Datum

2

22. Model Drawings

3

23. Sheet Drawings

3

24. Design Surveys

3

CADD3.03 Final Record Drawing Requirements

3

1. Drawings without dynamic models

4

2. Drawings with Dynamic Models

4

3. Record Drawing Disclaimer

4

CADD3.04 CADD Files and Submittal Review

5

Chapter CADD4 Organization

June 1, 2015

CADD4.01 Purpose

1

CADD4.02 File Organization

1

1. Default Origin

1

2. Model Files

1

3. Sheet Files

1
36

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

CADD4.03 Sheet Assembly

3

CADD4.04 Drawing Set Organization

3

1. Sheet Order

3

2. File naming

4

3. Sheet identification

8

4. Layout Tab Naming

10

5. Sheet Set Naming

10

CADD4.05 Drawing Sheet Organization

11

1. Sheet Sizes

11

2. Sheet Layout

11

3. Drawing Area

12

4. Production Data Area

12

5. Title Block Area

12

6. Standard Details and Drawings

12

CADD4.06 Schedules

12

Chapter CADD5 Drafting Conventions
CADD5.01 Purpose

1

CADD5.02 General

1

CADD5.03 Drawing File Scale

1

1. Model Files

2

2. Sheet Files

2

CADD5.04 Presentation Graphics
1. Alignments and Stationing

2

2. Orientation

3

3. North Arrow

3

4. Line Width (Line weights)

3

5. Line Types

4

6. Object Colors

4

7. Plotting and Publishing

4

8. Hatching (Patterning)

5

CADD5.05 Text
1. Styles, Fonts and Shape Files
June 1, 2015

2

7
7
37

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

Table of Contents

2. Text heights

8

3. Text Placement

9

CADD5.06 Dimensions

10

1. Dimension Lines

10

2. Dimension Text

10

CADD5.07 labels and Leaders

11

CADD5.08 Drafting Precision

12

CADD5.09 Notations

12

1. General notes

13

2. General Discipline Notes

13

3. General Sheet Notes

13

4. Sheet Keynotes

14

CADD5.10 Symbols

14

CADD5.11 Title Sheet Requirements

15

1. Title Sheet
CADD5.12 Sheet Types

15
15

1. Sheet Type 0 – General

16

2. Sheet Type 1 – Plans

16

3. Sheet Types 2 – Elevations

16

4. Sheet Type 3 – Sections

17

5. Sheet Type 4 – Large Scale Views

17

6. Sheet Type 5 –Details

18

7. Sheet Type 6 – Schedules and Diagrams

19

8. Sheet Type 7 & 8 – User Defined

20

9. Sheet Type 9 – 3D Representations

20

CADD5.13 Civil Plans – Plan View Criteria/Requirements

21

CADD5.14 Civil Plans – Profile View Criteria/Requirements

22

CADD5.15 Miscellaneous Civil Plans Criteria/Requirements

23

CADD5.16 Electrical Plans Criteria/Requirements

25

Chapter CADD6 Layers

June 1, 2015

CADD6.01 Purpose

1

CADD6.02 Layer Format

1
38

City Utilities Design Standards Manual

CADD6.03 New Layers

Table of Contents

6

Chapter CADD7 Symbols
CADD7.01 Purpose

1

CADD7.02 Symbols

1

CADD7.03 Symbols Classification

1

Chapter CADD8 Standard Drawings and Details

June 1, 2015

CADD8.01 Purpose

1

CADD8.02 General

1

39



 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY OF FORT WAYNE MASTER 		    	                                                UPDATED: 10/7/16
SECTION 33 12 00
Water Appurtenances
NTS:  This section includes appurtenances commonly used for water service, such as valves, fire hydrants, restraint devices, curb stops and corporation stops. 
Edit this section to suit project requirements and coordinate edits with related sections. 
GENERAL
DESCRIPTION
Scope:
Contractor shall provide all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals as shown, specified, and required to furnish, install, and test water appurtenances for water service Coordination:
Coordination: 
Review installation procedures for this and other specification sections and coordinate Work that must be installed with or before Work under this Section.
Related Sections:
NTS:  List below only sections covering products, construction and equipment that a user might expect to find in this section, but are specified elsewhere.  Do not list administrative and procedural Division 01 sections. Insert at (--1--) any additional section references. 
Section 33 05 33, Ductile Iron Pressure Utility Piping.
Section 33 05 23.13, Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.
Section 33 11 00, Water Piping Installation.  
(--1--)
NTS:  Section "1.2" is to be included if project is Bid on unit price basis. Section to be deleted or revised if project is to be bid on lump sum basis.
       
MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT
Measurement and payment for piping and associated appurtenances shall be included in the measurement and payment of each pipe material, except for the specific Work Items listed separately below and in other specification sections.
Water Service Replacement Short Side
Work Item Number and Title
		33 12 00-A Water Service Replacement Short Side
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual 	number successfully installed.
Payment for replacement water services shall be based on the 	contract unit price.    
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of "Short" or near side water services from the proposed water main to the proposed curb box.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, furnishing and placement of HDPE tubing, corporation stop, curb box, curb stop and Vadle, adjustment of the curb box, tie-over and reconnection of existing services, removal and disposal of existing curb stop and box, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, bedding and backfill placement and compaction, granular backfill and/or special backfill,  protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration, including but not limited to, pavement replacement as required, sidewalk and driveway restoration, mulched seeding, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified.  
Water Service Replacement  - Long Side
Work Item Number and Title
		33 12 00-B Water Service Replacement Long Side
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual number successfully installed.
Payment for replacement water services shall be based on the contract unit price.   
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of "long" or water services that cross the street from the proposed water main to the proposed curb box.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, furnishing and placement of HDPE tubing (installed by trenchless method), corporation stop, curb box, curb stop and Vadle, adjustment of the curb box, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, tie-over and reconnection of existing services, removal and disposal of existing curb stop and box, bedding and backfill placement and compaction, granular backfill and/or special backfill,  protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration including but not limited to, pavement replacement as required, sidewalk and driveway replacement, mulched seeding, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified. 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the project specific water service size. This Work item is used for service connections that are 2-inches and larger. Which are typically non-residential facilities such as; Churches, business schools factories. Delete if not applicable.   
(--1--)Water Service
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-C (--1--) Water Service 
Replacement water services to be measured for payment shall be the actual number successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
Payment for reconnection water services shall be based on the contract unit price.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment to provide replacement of the water service from the proposed water main to the proposed connection point.  The Work includes earth excavation and disposing of existing materials, bracing or shoring, dewatering, disposal of surfaces and spoil where required, bedding and backfill placement and compaction, granular backfill and/or special backfill,, furnishing and placement of tee, restraint for all joints, valve and box, adjustment of the valve box, all fittings and couplings necessary, tracing wire, tracing wire waterproof direct bury connector, tie-over and reconnection to existing services, removal and disposal of existing valve box, coordinating and cooperating with Water Maintenance and Service throughout the pressure testing and disinfection process, protection of existing utilities, protection of existing trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, site restoration including but not limited to, pavement replacement as required, sidewalk and driveway replacement, mulched seeding, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified.  All excavations made for service Work need to be backfilled with Special backfill.  
       
NTS:  There are seven fire hydrant assembly details, used for various installations. Add in the hydrant assembly type at (--1--) and verify that all the related Work items are included below. Add an additional Work item numbers for each different assembly type used on project. 
Fire Hydrant Assemblies
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-D Fire Hydrant Assembly-Type (--1--) 
The number of fire hydrant assemblies to be measured for payment shall be the actual number installed along a water main that is successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected.
The payment for this item shall be based on the contract unit price. Pressure testing and disinfection shall be included under the items for the water main unless otherwise broken down by the Engineer as a separate Bid item. 
These items shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment, both permanent and temporary, to install and maintain complete the fire hydrant assemblies as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work includes, but is not limited to:  clearing and grubbing, tree trimming, removing and returning or replacing trees not specified in the Contract Documents, pavement, curb, curb walk, sidewalk, and drive approach removal and disposal, trench excavation, disposal of excavated material, dewatering, granular and/or special backfill, required couplings and specials, bedding, temporary surface, testing of materials, compaction of bedding, temporary sheeting, shoring and bracing, site restoration including but not limited to, pavement replacement as required, sidewalk and driveway replacement, mulched seeding,, protection of existing utilities and structures, protection of trees, shrubbery, light poles, fences and mailboxes, repair of utility service laterals if disturbed, erosion control measures, the main connection, connection piping, fittings, , hydrant, 0.5 cubic yard stone drainage pit at the base of the hydrant, anchorage, gate valve, valve box and extensions, restrained joints, adjustment of valve boxes and the "Not in Service" tagging as necessary and specified.  Select and granular backfill shall be included under these items.
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of thei Section. 
This Item shall also include polyethylene encasement of hydrant leads. 
NTS:  Insert at (--1--) below the project specific gate valve size. Add in additional Work items for multiple gate valve sizes. Delete if not applicable.   
Resilient Seat Wedge Gate Valve and Boxes
Work Item Number and Title
     	33 12 00-E (--1--) Resilient Seat Gate Valve and Box		
The number of gate valves and boxes to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of gate valves and valve boxes installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the gate valves and valve boxes as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: gate valves and valve boxes (extensions as necessary), adjustment of the valve boxes, and any necessary joint restraining required to overcome the thrust imposed by the respective items. 
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of this Section. 
This item shall also include polyethylene encasement of gate valves. 
       
NTS:  Butterfly valves are typically used on waterlines larger than 20-inches, if smaller diameters the Resilient Seat Wedge valve is used. As diameters of resilient seat wedge valve become large they require many turns to open and close them. Insert at (--1--) below the project specific valve size. Add in additional Work items for multiple gate valve sizes. Delete if not applicable. Coordinate with sections 2.3 and 2.4.    
Butterfly Valve and Boxes
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-F (--1--) Butterfly Valve and Box		
The number of gate valves and boxes to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of butterfly valves and valve boxes installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the butterfly valves and valve boxes as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: butterfly valves and valve boxes (extensions as necessary), adjustment of the valve boxes, and any necessary joint restraining required to overcome the thrust imposed by the respective items.
NTS: Delete Paragraph 5 below based on project specific requirements. Conduct soil test at project location. Refer to the soil corrosively testing method to score the soil. If soil scores a 10 or greater then polyethylene encasement is required. If not used remove polyethylene encasement reference form Part 2 of this Section. 
This item shall also include polyethylene encasement of butterfly valves. 
Air Release Structure 
Work Item Number and Title
       	33 12 00-G Air Release Structure
The number of air release structures to be measured for payment shall be the actual number of structures and valves installed and adjusted as necessary, on a successfully installed, pressure tested and disinfected water main.
Payment for these items shall be based on the contract unit price per each structure installed.  
This item shall include all costs to furnish all labor, materials, tools, and equipment required to install and maintain complete the air release structures and all equipment within as shown and specified unless otherwise directed by the Engineer.  The Work shall include, but is not limited to: structure bedding and backfill, excavation, precast concrete manhole structure, manhole casting and lid, pavement removal and disposal if necessary, disposal of excess excavated material, base stabilization, dewatering, sheeting, riser rings,  temporary pavement replacement if necessary, air release valve, shut off valve, mechanical joint tee, and testing. site restoration including but not limited to, pavement replacement as required, sidewalk and driveway replacement, mulched seeding, and incidentals for performing all Work as specified.
       
REFERENCES
NTS:  Retain applicable standards and add others as required.
Standards referenced in this Section are:
AWWA C502, Dry-Barrel Fire Hydrants. 
AWWA C504, Rubber-Seated Butterfly Valves.
AWWA	C508, Swing-Check Valves for Waterworks Service, 2-inch through 24-inch NPS.
AWWA C515, Reduced-Wall Resilient-Seated Gate Valves for Water Supply Service.
AWWA C550, Protective Interior Coatings for Valves and Hydrants.
ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5, Standard for Polyethylene Encasement for Ductile-Iron Pipe Systems.
QUALITY ASSURANCE
NTS:  Edit or delete Paragraph "A" if project requirements prohibit an experience clause.
Manufacturer's Qualifications:
Manufacturer shall be able to provide documentation of at least five installations of substantially similar products to that specified, in satisfactory service for at least five years.
Component Supply and Compatibility:
Specified appurtenances of each type shall be furnished by a single manufacturer.
Regulatory Requirements:
NTS:  Some states require valves in contact with potable water or water that will be treated to become potable be certified as suitable for contact with drinking water by an accredited organization per ANSI/NSF 61 requirements.  Verify local requirements and delete or edit Paragraph "1" to suit the project.
Drinking Water Requirements: Valves that will be in contact with potable water or water that will be treated to become potable shall comply with ANSI/NSF 61 and the Safe Drinking Water Act.
SUBMITTALS
Action Submittals.  
Product Data: Submit the following for each type and size of fire hydrant, valve, and restraint device, curb stop and corporation stop specified:
Product data sheet.
Complete catalog information, including dimensions, weight, and performance data.  
Informational Submittals:  
Certifications: 
Submit documentation from the manufacturer of each product stating that product conforms to applicable referenced standards and specified requirements.
DELIVERY, STORAGE, AND HANDING
Comply with the manufacturer for special handling and storage requirements.
Conform to Section 01 65 00, Product Delivery Requirements and Section 01 66 00 Product Storage and Handling Requirements.
PRODUCTS
SERVICE CONDITIONS
NTS:  Review Paragraph A below and modify to suit the project.
General:
Water appurtenance items shall be suited for services intended. 
Water appurtenances that will be in contact with potable water shall be listed in ANSI/NSF 61 as being suitable for contact with potable water.   
FIRE HYDRANTS
Fire hydrants shall conform to AWWA C502 and shall be complete with all necessary fittings and accessories.  They shall have one 4 (1/2) inch pump connection and two 2 (1/2) inch hose connections with NSFH threads of four threads and 7 (1/2) threads per inch, respectively.  The hydrant shall open left (counterclockwise) and be of sufficient length for 5 foot burial.  
Contractor shall verify direction of opening with Engineer prior to ordering. 
All hydrants shall be properly painted before shipment and after installation in accordance with AWWA C502.  
Federal yellow shall be the color used to paint all hydrants.  They shall have an auxiliary valve as detailed on fire hydrant assembly standards. 
Hydrants shall be for 250 psi working pressure.  The hydrant shall be such that the valve will remain closed if the upper portion of the fire hydrant is removed or broken off.  The operating nut shall be pentagonal and shall turn counterclockwise to open. 
Contractor shall verify direction of opening with City prior to ordering. 
The hose caps shall be secured to the hydrant with a chain during shipment.  The chains may only be removed after the hydrant is placed into service.
The following fire hydrants are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Clow, Medallion
Mueller, A-423
American Darling/American Flow Control B62B
Kennedy, Guardian
Or Equal
NTS:  Resilient seat gate valves are used for watermain diameters less than 16". For diameters greater than 24' butterfly valves may be used. Remove Section 2.3 and 2.4 if not applicable to project. 
RESILIENT SEAT GATE VALVES
Valves used in water distribution systems shall be resilient seat gate valves unless the valves are not available in a required size.  Butterfly valves may be used in diameters 20-inch and greater.
Buried valves shall have mechanical joints. Valves shall open right (clockwise) and shall be equipped with O-ring packing and a two inch (2") operating nut and non-rising stem. Contractor shall verify direction of opening with City prior to ordering.
Resilient seated gate valves are to be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C515.  Valves shall be ductile iron bronze mounted.  Resilient seats shall be applied in accordance with AWWA C515.  
Valves shall be designed for a working pressure of 250 psi.
The following resilient seated gate valves are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation, listed by manufacturer and model number, no substitutions:
American Flow Control, 2500 series
Clow, 2639/2640 or 2638
Kennedy, KS-FW or KS-RW
Mueller, 2360 or 2361
FUSIBLE HDPE GATE VALVE
Valves used in water distribution systems shall be resilient seat gate valves unless the valves are not available in a required size.  Fusible HDPE gate valves are acceptable in 6-inch, 8-inch and 12-inch. 
Pipe on the fusible stub ends shall match the mainline pipe size and requirements and be PE4710, suitable for butt fusion of electrofusion and meet AWWA C906. 
Valves shall open right (clockwise) and shall be equipped with O-ring packing and a two inch (2") operating nut and non-rising stem. Contractor shall verify direction of opening with City prior to ordering.
Resilient seated gate valves are to be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C515.  Valves shall be ductile iron bronze mounted.  Resilient seats shall be applied in accordance with AWWA C515.  
Valves shall be designed for a working pressure of 250 psi.
The following resilient seated gate valves are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation, listed by manufacturer and model number, no substitutions:
AVK, Series 66 American  
NTS:  Resilient seat gate valves are typically used for watermain diameters less than 16". For diameters greater than 24' butterfly valves may be used. Remove Section 2.5 if not applicable to project.
BUTTERFLY VALVES
Butterfly valves may be used in diameters 20-inch and greater where resilient seat gate valves are not available.  
Butterfly valves are to be manufactured in accordance with AWWA C504 with stainless steel shafts. The shaft seats, bearings, operators, body and discs shall be designed based on Class 150B.  
Butterfly valves shall be designed for a working pressure of 250 psi.
Seating ring shall be made of rubber and located in the body or on the disc and shall be adjustable and field replaceable.  
Shaft shall be of the through type or stub type and shall be marked on the end to indicate the position of the valve disc with respect to the shaft.  
Discs shall be of corrosion-resistant alloy cast iron.  
Valves shall be equipped with a stainless steel stop in the body to prevent the disc from rotating through the closed position.  The shaft seals shall be of the "split-V" or Chevron type.  The operator shall be permanently lubricated and sealed for buried service and shall be equipped with a 2 inch square opening nut.  The operator shall be constructed such that the valve will open right (clockwise). 
The bolts, screws, and nuts used in the assembly of the valve and exposed to the soil shall be corrosion resistant.
Butterfly valves used in connection with ductile iron pipe shall be equipped with standard mechanical joint ends complete with all accessories as outlined in this chapter.  
The following butterfly valves are acceptable for use in connection with water main installation:
Clow, 4500 Series
Mueller, Lineseal XPII
Dezurik, BAW
Kennedy, 1450 Series
Pratt, Triton XR-70
Or equal
RESTRAINED JOINTS FOR WATER APPURTENANCES
NTS: Delete products 2 thru 5 for pipe sizes 16" and larger.
Provide restrained joints for water appurtenances by one of the following:
EBBA Iron MegaLug
Sigma One-Lok (SLCE) Wedge restraint
Romac RomaGrip MJ restraining gland
Stargrip Series 4000(G2) MJ wedge action restraint
Ford Uni-Flange Series 1500(R) MJ retainer gland
WATER SERVICE LINES
Provide HDPE pipe for service connections, refer to Section 33 05 38.16  -  HDPE Pressure Utility Piping. 
All connections and joints shall utilize NL brass mechanical compression fittings that are designed and specified for using with HDPE tubing. The following are acceptable compression connectors:  
Mueller 110 Compression Connection. 
Ford Quick Joint. 
Or approved equal. 
Pipe Stiffeners for water service lines:
Insert shall be 304 stainless steel, provided by the following manufacturers:
Mueller
Ford
McDonald 
Segmented and non-segmented are acceptable. 
Provide flared end stiffeners that extend into the compression fitting and are intended for use with compression style connections.  
Stiffeners must match the inner diameter of the service line pipe. 
Buried Service Connection Identification
Tracing wire is required for all service lines.
Refer to Section 33 11 00  -  Water Piping Installation for buried tracing wire requirements. 
Plastic Hose Clamps 
Provide non-metallic plastic hose clamps. 
NTS: The following products have been updated to the no lead requirement, based on the January 4, 2011 amendment to Section 1417 of the Clean Water Act.
CURB STOPS
Curb Stops 
Curb stops shall be ball type valves of extra heavy, all brass construction.  The curb stops shall have a heavy or thick tee-head operator and a 90 degree rotation of the ball.  Each stop shall be equipped with a curb box.  Ball valves shall have Teflon coated balls and hard or synthetic rubber seat-rings.  
The following corporation stops are acceptable for use in connection with water main installations, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Mueller, B-25204N or B-2520938N
Ford, B22-NL or B44-NL
McDonald, 76100 or 76100-22
CURB BOX LOCK
Curb Stops 3/4 to 1 inch in diameter 
A curb box lock shall be used on all services.
The following manufacturers and products are approved:
JRC Supplies Inc., Vadle
Or approved equal
CORPORATION STOPS
Corporation Stops 
Corporation stops shall be ball type valves of extra heavy, all brass construction.  The corporation stops shall have a flat, thick, operating head with a 360 degree rotation.    The corporation stop inlet threads shall be machined with standard AWWA tapered threads.  
The following corporation stops are acceptable for use in connection with water main installations, listed by manufacturer and model number:
Mueller, B-25000N or B-25008N
Ford, FB-600NL or FB-1000NL
McDonald, 74701B or 74701B-22
NTS: Tapping saddles are used for plastic piping. A direct tap is used for ductile iron pipe. 
TAPPING SADDLES
Tapping saddles shall be used for all service taps. 
Saddles for Non-HDPE Pipe
Tapping saddles and hardware shall be ductile iron with epoxy coating, stainless steel or bronze material with AWWA tapered threads.  The tapping saddle design shall be hinged or bolted, both with a minimum strap width of 2 inches.  3 piece tapping saddle design is not allowed.
Saddles for HDPE Pipe
Only electrofusion saddles are acceptable for use with HDPE pipe. 
Provide electrofusion saddles manufactured in accordance with ASTM F-1055 and conform with the following material requirements:
Pre-Blended resin 4710 which complies with ASTM D3350. 
Resin must be acceptable for use with potable water and comply with NSF Standard 61. 
VALVE BOXES AND CURB BOXES
Valve Boxes
Valve boxes shall cast iron, 3 piece, Buffalo, screw type boxes.  The boxes shall be 5 (1/4) inch shaft size with a round base.  The word "water" shall be cast on the box lid.
Provide a valve box aligner:
Posi-Cap Valve Box Aligner. 
Or equal.
Curb boxes shall be cast iron 2 piece, Buffalo, screw type boxes.  The box shall be 3 inches in diameter with a round base.  The word "water" shall be cast on the lid. The lid shall be held in place with a standard brass pentagon head screw.   
NTS:  Edit Section "2.10 C" below to suit project. Ensure that the detail is included on the Contract Drawings. 
WATER METER BOXES
Provide plastic pit setter water meter box with a frost roof double lid cover and yoke bar. 
Manufactures: 
Ford Meter Box Company, Inc.
Or equal. 
Conform to dimensions shown on the Contract Drawings.. 
AIR RELEASE STRUCTURES 
Structure	
Provide precast concrete air release structures, using a doghouse style manhole.  
Structure Lid 
Casting shall be Self-Sealing or water tight.
Lid shall be stamped with the word WATER and have closed pick holes.
Air Release Valve 
Valmatic Model #25 VC 
Or equal
NTS: Polyethylene wrap is typically used where there are corrosive soils are present and the pipe material or fittings are metal. Remove article 2.14 below if not required for project. Add additional information to suit project.
POLYETHYLENE WRAP
Provide polyethylene wrap for fire hydrant leads and valves; refer to 33 05 33 Ductile Iron Pressure Utility Piping. 
NTS: Edit article 2.15 below based on project specific requirements. Provide standard details on Contract Drawings. Coordinate with Article 3.11 below. 
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
All backflow prevention devices must be approved and listed by the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research as published by the USC. This listing is available from USC or IDEM's Drinking Water Branch.
PAINTING OF EXPOSED VALVES, HYDRANTS, AND APPURTENANCES
Exterior steel, cast-iron, and ductile iron surfaces, except machined surfaces of exposed valves, hydrants, and appurtenances, shall be finish painted in manufacturer's shop. Surface preparation, priming, finish painting, and field touch-up painting shall conform to the coating systems specification.
PAINTING OF BURIED VALVES AND APPURTENANCES
Exterior steel, cast-iron, and ductile iron surfaces, except machined or bearing surfaces of buried valves and appurtenances, shall be painted in manufacturer's shop with two coats of asphalt varnish conforming to FS TT-C 494.
EXECUTION
INSTALLATION
General:
Install water appurtenances as shown, specified, and as recommended by the manufacture.
In the event of conflict between manufacturer's recommendations and the Contract Documents, request interpretation from Engineer before proceeding. 
Location of service connections and insertion valves indicated are approximate. Final location will be established during construction by the Owner.
Do not install service connections until new mains have been successfully tested, disinfected, and placed in service. 
Prior to ordering tapping sleeve assembly, expose existing main and verify circumference of existing pipe.
Prior to ordering insertion valve and sleeve assembly, expose existing main at point of installation and verify circumference, actual caliper diameter and roundness of existing pipe.  In addition, identify the exterior condition of the pipe with respect to pitting, scaling, electrolysis, or other defects which would affect manufacturing dimensions or exact location of the insertion.
FIRE HYDRANTS
Install hydrants as shown and indicated in the Contract Documents.
Provide suitable adapters when hydrants and piping have different joint types.
Provide thrust restraint at all hydrants located at pipeline terminations.
Set hydrants plumb and to grade of curb, street, alley, highway, or right-of-way with pumper nozzle toward middle line of street, highway, or right-of-way.
Set hydrant elbow and on solid block, place INDOT No. 8 stone (1/2 Cubic YDS Minimum around hydrant elbow (See Detail W-17), place INDOT No. 8 or INDOT No. 53/73 around valve and valve box (See Detail W-17). 
Where fire hydrant must be located in a paved area provide a minimum of 5-foot by 5-foot concrete block-out, with expansion joints on all sides. 
When Engineer deems it necessary to set a fire hydrant at a greater depth of bury as a result of changing hydrant location from that shown, adjust elevation by furnishing and installing the fire hydrant manufacturer's standard barrel and stem extensions.
VALVES 
Install valves, valve boxes, and curb boxes as shown and indicated in the Contract Documents.
Provide suitable adapters when valves and piping have different joint types.
Provide thrust restraint at all valves located at pipeline terminations.
Set valves plumb and on solid bearing. 
Place valves within park strip areas (grass area between sidewalk and curb), or as directed by the Engineer. 
Assemble, align, and fit tapping sleeve and tapping valve to main using personnel skilled and experienced in making of pressure taps.  In the event of mismatch of purchased materials, refit in the field or make necessary arrangements with manufacturer for factory refit. Remove section of severed water main through tapping valve and present to Owner as proof of satisfactory execution of the operation.  Owner may retain coupon for further analysis or testing to evaluate the condition of existing water main.
Install insertion valves and sleeves using personnel skilled and experienced in the use of the valve insertion machinery and accessory equipment of the type, design and size corresponding to each valve size installed.  Remove section of severed water main and present to Owner as proof of satisfactory execution of the operation.  Owner may retain coupon for further analysis or testing to evaluate the condition of existing water main.
TAPPING PROCEDURES FOR WATER SERVICES
    Tapping saddles must be used for the installation of a corporation stop in a tapped pipe. The tap saddle is made to a specific inner diameter to match the outer diameter of the pipe.  It fully supports the pipe and is sized so that the parts when bolted together cannot be over tightened on the pipe. 
    Prepare and clean all pipe surfaces that are in contact with the tapping saddle. This includes all surfaces that are in contact when the tapping saddle before, during and after the fusion and tapping. 
    Do not make cuts in pipe until the saddle is property connected or fused to the mainline pipe.
    Comply with manufacturer's installation instructions and recommendations.
VALVE BOXES AND CURB BOXES
Center and plumb valve and curb box over valve; set box cover flush with finished grade.
Construct valve box concrete collar; provide expansion joint material around portion of box in concrete pavement or sidewalks.
Vadle Installation
Place the Vadle on a properly prepared level sub base under the curb stop.
Install the anti-twist ring over the key of the curb stop, the ring will lock onto the curb stop. 
Place the curb box over the Vadle.
Backfill on all side in equal lifts, avoid and displacement of the curb stop and valve box during backfilling. 
Install the valve box aligner to keep the valve box in place and secure during backfilling. 
AIR RELEASE STRUCTURES 
Manholes:  
Install structure sections, joints, and gaskets in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
Apply trowelable grade butyl rubber backplaster material 1/4 inch minimum thickness, on the outside of the precast manhole at each joint. 
Apply non-shrink grout to the inside of the precast manhole at each joint.
Lifting holes, if used in manhole components, shall be repaired using a conical precast concrete plug, properly sealed into place using a non-shrink cement epoxy grout. 
Place the base of the doghouse style precast manhole on concrete blocks with a minimum of 6-inches of INDOT NO. 6 compacted stone. 
Encase the waterline in INDOT NO. 8 stone flush with the base of the air release valve. 
Join casting frame to structure with a double row of butyl rubber flexible rope joint sealant. 
Air Release Valve:
Install air release valves in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
NTS: Edit section below based on project specific service connection installation requirements. Ensure that the standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. Delete if not applicable.
SMALL SERVICE CONNECTIONS-( 1INCH THRU 2 INCH)
Trenchless Service Connections
Install pipe under street and highway pavements by pushing or boring, in accordance with Section 33 05 23.13 Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.
Ensure service connection has a minimum cover of 4 foot. 
Install pipe backfill that is free from large rocks, sharp objects or debris. 
Install services perpendicular to the right-of-way line. Place the curb stop within 4-feet of a side property line and 7-feet off of the right-of-way line. 
Services shall be continuous pipe from the corporation to the curb stop, and from the curb stop to the meter. Only butt fused joints are allowed. 
Do not use pipe lubricants or compounds at joints or fittings. 
If service line is cut or gouged greater than 5% of wall thickness, replace the entire service line. 
Do not stretch service line tight during installation. Provide a minimum 12-inches of slack in the line per 100-feet to allow for expansion and contraction.
Bend pipe in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations. Do not kink pipe during bending. No bend shall be made within 10 diameters of a fitting. 
NTS: Ensure that the appropriate tracing wire standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. 
Buried Piping Identification Tracing for Service Connections. 
Install tracing wire for service connections in accordance with the Contract Drawings. Refer to Section 33 11 00  -  Water Piping Installation for additional installation requirements. 
NTS: Edit paragraph K through M below based on project specific requirements.
For existing service connections, intercept or extend as shown or noted to connect to new water mains.
For existing service connection pipe to be abandoned, close the exposed end by crimping.
For existing service connections to be abandoned on existing water mains to remain in service, dig up (expose) and turn off the existing corporation stop at the connection to the existing main.
NTS: Edit section below based on project specific service connection installation requirements. Ensure that the standard detail is included in the Contract Drawings. Delete if not applicable.
LARGE SERVICE CONNECTIONS-( 4 INCH AND LARGER)
Trenchless Service Connections
Install pipe under street and highway pavements by pushing or boring, in accordance with Section 33 05 23.13 Utility Horizontal Directional Drilling.
Minimum cover for services is 4 feet. 
Service Connections on New Mainline
Install tee compatible with the mainline material.
Install a standard gate valve and valve box. 
Service Connections on Mainlines In Service
Install tapping sleeve compatible with the mainline material.
Install a tapping valve and standard valve box. 
Buried Piping Identification Tracing for Service Connections. 
Install tracing wire for service connections in accordance with the Contract Drawings. Refer to Section 33 11 00  -  Water piping Installation for additional installation requirements. 
CONNECTIONS AND INSERTIONS INTO EXISTING MAINS
Existing mains into which valves are to be inserted cannot be shut down or taken out of service.  The entire operation of installing the valves shall be accomplished below 100 psig at the point of installation.
Connect new mains to existing mains using proper fittings and in a manner acceptable to Owner and Engineer.
Expose existing mains at connection points 10 days prior to making connections to determine elevation, verify type of pipe, confirm outside diameter of pipe, and identify type of restraints existing.
No cut-ins or connections to existing mains shall be made unless at least 48 hours notice is given to Owner and Engineer.
Plan all connecting Work to reduce number of shutoffs.
Two days prior to shutting valves on existing lines, notify all affected property owners, local official in charge of the water works system, and Engineer of such shutoff.
Keep shutoff time to a minimum and do at off-peak hours.
A representative of Owner shall operate existing valves.  Contractor shall not operate existing valves.
Owner and Engineer assume no responsibility for any delay occasioned by special requirements or conditions which must be met in making connections.
Take extreme care in making connections to prevent contamination of existing mains.
Before making cut-ins or connections to existing mains, wash all fittings, valves, and pipe with clean water, and then disinfect by washing with a chlorine solution having a residual chlorine strength of not less than 50 ppm.
Plugs removed from existing mains that are not damaged may be reused within the Project, and those remaining after completion of construction shall remain the property of Owner.
WATER METER BOXES
Install assemblies as shown or noted and with meter pit cover at grade level; comply with component manufacturer's instructions.
Install meter setters level and plump. 
Do not install meter pits in street, parking lots, driveways, or any area where vehicular traffic may occur.  
NTS: Backflow prevention devices are typically for business and manufacturing facilities that use the potable water in a process. They are used to protect the main waterline, during a loss of pressure, from siphoning the facilities process water back into the system. Edit section below based on project specific requirements.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
 Install backflow valves in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations. 

+ + END OF SECTION + +

 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Fort Wayne ======================== Democratic ======================== 

CITY UTILITIES
DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL
Book 4
Water (W)
W5 Water Main Design
June 2015

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

W5.01 Purpose
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide requirements on the design
elements and basic hydraulic criteria necessary for the proper design of
potable water distribution systems. This Chapter establishes the minimum
standards and technical design criteria for all City of Fort Wayne water
distribution systems. All projects that result in infrastructure that is to be
owned, operated, or maintained by City Utilities shall follow these
requirements. All variances from these design standards shall be approved
prior to commencement of design in compliance with Chapter GR3 Variances.
1.

Basic Elements of Design
•

•
•
•
•

Horizontal alignment with consideration of separation from sanitary
and storm sewers, potential sources of contamination and
efficiently provide service to existing and potential water service
users.
Vertical alignment with consideration of service depth, minimum
cover, underground utility conflicts and constructability.
Total design flow with consideration of existing and future
population served by the water main.
Water main size, material, bedding and construction method.
Necessary appurtenances and additional items required for a
complete and functional water system.

2. Covered in this Chapter
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

General Improvement Location Criteria
Horizontal Alignment Criteria
Vertical Alignment Criteria
Pipe Bedding and Backfill
Pipe Materials
Design Flow
Hydraulic Design Criteria
Water Main Pipe Requirements
Joint Restraint
Casing Pipe
Infrastructure Crossings

3. Covered in Other Chapters
• Chapter W6 - Building Services
• Chapter W7 - Appurtenances
• Chapter W8 - Backflow Prevention
• Chapter W9 - Fire Services

W5.02 General Improvement Location Criteria
General improvement location criteria of proposed water main alignment to
be considered shall include, but not be limited to the following:

June 1, 2015

1

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Use existing rights-of-way and/or easements whenever possible.
Easements shall be required for all water main installations along
proposed major corridors and non-residential streets. Consult City
Utilities regarding easement acquisition for water main installation.
Easement requirements, property values, and potential damages to
all affected properties.
Evaluate service needs of both present service area and future
service area.
Potential development and utility or street extensions and widening
into adjacent areas.
Serve entire area in best way possible.
Existing underground and overhead utilities, roadways, and
railroads.
Proposed utilities such as sewer, stormwater, and other water
facilities.
Environmentally sensitive areas including creeks, rivers, wetlands,
trees, protected habitats, etc.
100-year flood elevations and regulatory floodways.
Continuity with adjacent design segments.
Maintenance of traffic during construction.
Availability of materials.
Foundation conditions.
Construction costs.
Subsurface conditions: soils and ground water.
Access for maintenance and repair.

W5.03 Horizontal Alignment Criteria
In general, water mains shall be located on the opposite side of the street
from the sanitary sewer. Water mains are generally located on the north and
west sides of the public right of way. Every effort shall be made to locate the
water main outside of the pavement, but within existing or proposed rightof-way or easements. Refer to Chapter GR7 - Easements for further
guidelines regarding water main easements.
1.

Placement in Existing Right-of-Way
A. For water mains located within existing or proposed street right-ofway, the preferred placement shall be as generally defined in
Exhibit W5-1 Recommended Utility Placement in Public Right-ofWay.
B. Allowances for future sidewalk shall be made.
C. The location of the roadway, curb and gutter, sidewalk and other
utilities shall be taken into account.

2.

Placement Outside of Existing Right-of-Way
A. Where water mains cannot be placed within right-of-way,
easements shall be procured.

June 1, 2015

2

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

B. Easements adjacent to the right-of-way shall be required for all
water main installations along major arterial corridors and nonresidential streets.
C. Refer to Figure GR7.1 Minimum Easement Widths in Chapter GR7 Easements for minimum easement widths required for water main
installation.
3.

Minimum Horizontal Separation from Sewers
A. A ten (10) foot horizontal distance edge to edge shall be maintained
between water main and any existing or proposed gravity or
pressurized sewer line or structure per Title 327 IAC 8-3.2-9.
B. The crossing must maintain a minimum angle of intersection of 45
degrees (45o) measured from the centerlines of the water main and
sewer line. This angle of intersection shall be maintained for a
minimum distance of 10 feet (10’) from either side of the water
main.
C. If it is not possible to maintain the ten (10) foot horizontal
separation, the following design criteria shall apply:


Installation of the water main closer to the sewer may be
approved, provided that the water main is in a separate trench
or on an undisturbed earth shelf located on one side of the
sewer and at an elevation such that the bottom of the water
main is at least 18 inches (18”) above the top of the sewer.



The sewer shall be constructed of water main grade pipe
material from manhole to manhole with pressure rated joints
complying with Title 327 IAC 8-3.2-8. All water main grade pipe
material requirements are defined in Chapter MA7 - Water
Materials and Testing Requirements.
Either the water main or sewer shall be encased in a watertight
casing pipe which extends for a minimum distance of 10 feet
(10’) from either side of the water main or sewer as measured
from the outside edge of the water main to the outside edge of
the sewer.



4.

Minimum Distance from Buildings
A. Water mains (not service lines) shall be located a minimum of 10
feet (10’) horizontally from any part of a building structure or its
foundation.

5.

Minimum Distance from Storage Tanks
A. The following shall apply when storage tanks are in the vicinity of
the proposed water main:


June 1, 2015

Storage Tanks Containing Hazardous Materials: Water mains
shall be separated from existing and proposed above ground or
underground storage tanks and their local distribution devices
(pumps) containing or potentially containing hazardous
materials, petroleum products, or waste materials by a distance
3

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water



6.

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

of 25 feet (25’) horizontally measured from the outside edge of
the water main to the outside edge of the tank or distribution
device and shall not cross such tanks or local distribution
devices.
Other Storage Tanks: Water mains shall be separated from all
other below ground storage tanks not defined above (excluding
potable water storage tanks) by 10 feet (10’) measured
horizontally from the outside edge of the water main to the
outside edge of the storage tank.

Minimum Distance from Liquid Petroleum and High Pressure Piping
A. Liquid Petroleum and any high pressure piping shall be separated
from water mains in the same manner as sanitary and storm sewer
lines and related structures or the respective owner’s specifications.
In the event of conflicting specifications, the more stringent shall
apply.

7.

Minimum Distances from Utilities Other than Sewers
A. When practical, all utility lines not addressed in other sections
(electric, cable, telephone) shall be separated a minimum of 3 feet
(3’) or per the respective owner’s specifications. In the event of
conflicting specifications, the more stringent shall apply.
B. All drawings shall show the location of both underground and
overhead utilities.
C. Utility locations shall be derived from the most reliable and up-todate information.
D. Each utility shall receive a set of drawings prior to final submittal.
On these drawings, they shall note changes or addition to utility
information.
E. Separation distance of water main from other utilities shall be
determined by the representative of other utilities and the
applicant.
F. Any necessary relocation shall be closely coordinated with the
respective utility representative.

8.

Minimum Distance from Potential Contamination Sources
A. The following shall apply when potential contamination sources are
in the vicinity of the proposed water main:






June 1, 2015

Sewage or Septic Areas: Water mains shall be separated from
sewage or septic treatment equipment and septic tank
absorption field trenches and lift stations by 10 feet (10’)
measured horizontally from the outside edge of the water main
to the outside edge of the defined structure.
Grave Sites: Water mains shall be separated from grave sites by
10 feet (10’) measured horizontally from the outside edge of
the water main to the outside edge of the grave site.
Landfills: Water mains shall be separated from existing or
proposed landfills by 50 feet (50’) measured horizontally from
4

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water



9.

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

the water main to the outside edge of the waste boundary of an
existing or proposed landfill. In addition, water mains within
300 feet (300’) of the outside edge of the waste boundary of an
existing or proposed landfill shall be constructed of nonpermeable materials. Water mains shall not cross or pass
through the waste boundary of an existing or proposed landfill.
Organic Compounds: Where distribution systems are installed in
areas of groundwater contaminated by organic compounds,
pipes and joint materials which are not subject to permeation of
the organic compounds shall be used. The non-permeable
materials shall be used for all portions of the system including
the water main, service connections, and hydrant leads

Location in Relation to Streams and Waterways
A. Water mains located along existing or proposed streams or
waterways shall be located outside of the stream bed or edge of the
water line and sufficiently separated to allow for future
improvements to the stream or waterway channel.
B. Water mains shall be separated from existing or proposed water
bodies by a minimum of 10 feet (10’) horizontally measured from
the outside edge of the water main to the outside edge of the
typical water line or ditch outside edge if the stream is intermittent.
C. If bridge structure wingwalls are present at the stream or waterway
crossing, a minimum distance of three (3) feet horizontal must be
maintained between the outer edge of the wingwall and the outer
edge of the water main pipe.

10. Allowable Horizontal Pipe Deflection
A. When it is necessary to deflect pipe horizontally from a straight line,
the amount of joint deflection for PVC pipe shall not exceed 50percent of the manufacturer recommended deflection. Consult the
manufacturer’s literature for allowable joint deflections for
allowable pipe deflections.
B. The allowable joint deflection for ductile iron pipe shall be as shown
in Exhibit W5-2, Maximum Ductile Iron Joint Deflections. For design
purposes, deflection shall be limited to 80 percent (80%) of the
values shown.
C. If the manufacturer’s specified deflection allowance is greater than
that described above and in Exhibit W5-2, City Utilities can be
consulted to allow such deflections.
11. Angle of Intersection
A. Water mains are preferred to cross other utility conduits, highways,
and railroads at 90 degree (90o) angles.

June 1, 2015

5

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

W5.04 Vertical Alignment Criteria
1.

Minimum Depth of Cover
• Minimum depth of cover for water main pipes located within the
right of way of arterial streets shall be 6 feet as measured from the
proposed surface elevation to the top of the water main pipe.
• Minimum depth of cover for all water main pipes outside of an
arterial street right of way shall be 5 feet as measured from the
proposed surface elevation to the top of the water main pipe.
• Minimum depth of cover for service lines shall be 5 feet.

2.

Minimum Vertical Separation from Sewers
• A minimum vertical separation of 18 inches (18”) measured
vertically from the outside edge of the water main to the outside
edge of any existing or proposed gravity or pressurized sewer line or
structure shall be maintained per 327 IAC 8-3.2-9.
• When crossing a sewer the 18 inches (18”) vertical separation shall
be maintained for a minimum distance of 10 feet (10’) from either
side of the water main as measured from the outside edge of the
water main to the outside edge of the sewer line.
• If it is not possible to maintain the 18 inch (18”) vertical separation,
the following criteria shall apply:
A. The sewer shall be constructed of water main grade pipe
material from manhole to manhole with pressure rated joints
complying with 327 IAC 8-3.2-8. All water main grade pipe
material requirements are defined in Chapter MA7 - Water
Materials and Testing Requirements.
B. Either the water main or sewer shall be encased in a watertight
casing pipe which extends for a minimum distance of 10 feet
(10’) from either side of the water main or sewer as measured
from the outside edge of the water main to the outside edge of
the sewer.

June 1, 2015

3.

Air Release Structures
• Air Release Valves or similar shall be installed in locations where the
vertical alignment of the water main results in a high point in the
elevation.
• Refer to Chapter W7 - Appurtenances for air release structure
requirements.

4.

Stream and Waterway Crossings
• Water mains located above streams, waterways or any water bodies
are not allowed.
• Water mains located under existing or proposed streams,
waterways or water bodies less than 15 feet (15’) in width at the
crossing point shall be covered with a minimum of 60 inches (60”) of
cover and constructed with watertight, flexible joints.
• Water mains crossing under existing or proposed streams,
waterways or water bodies greater than 15 feet (15’) in width at the
6

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

crossing point shall be covered with a minimum of 60 inches (60”) of
cover, constructed with watertight, flexible joints, have valves
placed at both ends of the surface water body. The valves shall be
easily accessible, not subject to flooding, and have the valve closest
to the supply source located in a manhole structure. It is desirable
to have permanent taps made on each side of the valve within the
manhole to allow insertion of a small meter to determine leakage
and for sampling purposes.
5.

Allowable Vertical Pipe Deflection
•

•

•

When it is necessary to deflect pipe horizontally from a straight line,
the amount of joint deflection for PVC pipe shall not exceed 50percent of the manufacturer recommendation for deflection.
Consult the manufacturer’s literature for allowable joint deflections
and for allowable pipe deflections.
The allowable joint deflection for ductile iron pipe shall be as shown
in Exhibit W5-2 Maximum Ductile Iron Joint Deflections. For design
purposes, deflection shall be limited to 80 percent (80%) of the
values shown.
If the manufacturer’s specified deflection allowance is greater than
that described above and in Exhibit W5-2, City Utilities can be
consulted to allow such deflections

W5.05 Pipe Bedding and Backfill
1.

See Standard Drawing BS-4 General Rigid Pipe Bedding Detail.

2.

See Standard Drawing BS-5 General Flexible Pipe Bedding Detail.

3.

All backfill for valves, fire hydrants and curb stops shall be No. 8 or No.
53/73 stone. Refer to Chapter MA7 - Water Materials and Testing
Requirements.

4.

Refer to Chapter MA4 - Common Materials for bedding and backfill
specifications.

W5.06 Pipe Materials
Refer to Chapter MA7 - Water Materials and Testing Requirements for
approved water main pipe materials.

W5.07 Design Flow
In general, water mains shall be designed to provide for the Design Demand
in accordance with the criteria established below.
1. Design Demand
The Design Demand is the combination of maximum daily demand plus
fire flow demand as follows:
DD = (Max day) + FF
where:
June 1, 2015

7

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

DD = Design Demand (gpm)
Max day = Maximum daily demand (gpm)
FF = Fire flow demand (gpm)
Each of the above demands is described in the following sections.
Please note that this section presents the minimum values and rates.
Higher or more conservative values and rates can be utilized. Exhibit
W5-3 Design Demand Determination Worksheet provides a guideline to
aid in determining Design Demand.
2.

Maximum Daily Demand
Maximum Daily Demand is the summation of all domestic, processing,
indirect and unknown demands with applied peaking factors (PF) as
follows:
Max day = (Dom + Proc + Indirect + Unk) x PF
where:
Max day = Maximum daily demand (gpm)
Dom = domestic demands (gpm)
Proc = process demands (gpm)
Indirect = indirect demands (gpm)
Unk = unknown water demands (gpm)
PF = peaking factor (note that peaking factors can be applicable
only to a specific water demand)
•

Domestic Demand
Domestic demand (Dom) is the amount of water needed for
household and sanitary purposes. This includes water needed at
home or at work for drinking, washing, bathing, cooking, flushing,
and other purposes. Domestic demand shall be determined as
follows:
Dom = residential domestic demand + commercial domestic
demand + industrial domestic demand
A. Residential Domestic Demand
The residential domestic demand shall be determined using one
of the two following methods:
 Method A – General Average
The residential domestic demand shall be determined by
using the proposed number of residential units and the
following general average:
0.35 gallons/residential unit/minute
This rate shall be multiplied by the proposed number of
residential units to determine the residential domestic

June 1, 2015

8

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

demand of the development. A residential unit represents a
single family home, apartment unit, mobile home lot, or a
single portion of a multiple family dwelling unit.
 Method B – Determined Average
The residential domestic demand may be determined using
the proposed number of residential units and the determined
average (using data provided by City Utilities).
The
determined average shall be as follows:
(ADCD10) / (SC10)
where:
ADCD10 = the average daily customer demand as
reported by City Utilities over the previous ten (10)
years
SC10 = number of service connections at the time of
ADCD10
This rate shall be multiplied by the proposed number of
residential units to determine the residential domestic
demand of the development. A residential unit represents a
single family home, apartment unit, mobile home lot, or a
single portion of a multiple family dwelling unit.
•

Commercial and Industrial Domestic Demand
The commercial and industrial domestic demand shall be
determined using the proposed number of people at building
capacity, the proposed number of operating shifts (1, 2, or 3), and
the following general average:
0.07 gallons / capita / shift / minute

•

Process Demand
Process demand (Proc) is the amount of water needed for
commercial and industrial processing such as cooling water or that
used for processes such as canning or bottling. Process water
demand shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Justification
and documentation shall be submitted for each processing water
demand in accordance with Chapter W4 - Drawings and Submittals.

•

Indirect Demand
Indirect demand (indirect) is the amount of water set aside for
future off-site extensions of the water main such as additional
sections of subdivisions. Indirect demand is usually comprised of
the types of demand (dom, proc) that are estimated (or set aside)
for future anticipated demand. This demand must be stated as zero
(0) if no considerations are being made for indirect demands.

•

June 1, 2015

Unknown Demand

9

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Unknown demand (unk) is the amount of water set aside for the onsite development of the proposed project if the project occupants
are unknown (i.e. spec buildings or industrial development park).
Unknown demand can either be assumed or intentionally
determined to maximize the water demand capacity of the
proposed development. Note that assumed unknown demands
that are too low may limit the eventual build out of the proposed
development while assumed unknown demands that are too high
may increase construction costs. This demand must be stated as
zero (0) if no considerations are being made for unknown demands.
•

Peaking Factors
Peaking factors are used to recognize that water demand is not
always constant. Demand throughout the day, week, season, or by
weather can cause fluctuations from average values.
A. The following minimum peaking factors shall apply:


Domestic demand

2.5*



Process demand

1.6



Indirect demand (unless domestic)1.6



Unknown demand

1.6

*Domestic demand peaking factors shall apply to indirect
demands that are domestic in nature.
B. An alternative method of determining the domestic demand
may be determined using data provided by City Utilities as
follows:
PF* = MDD10 / 10YADD
where:
PF* = alternative domestic demand peaking factor
MDD10 = the maximum single day demand as reported
by City Utilities over the previous 10 years
10YADD = the 10 year average daily demand as
reported by City Utilities
3.

Fire Flow
Fire flow (FF) is the fire protection demand based upon the type of
construction, size, number of floors, type of occupancy and exposure of
the structures.
•

Residential
In the case of residential areas, water mains shall be designed to
provide a minimum fire flow demand of 1,000 gpm at the most
remote fire hydrant in the project area.

•
June 1, 2015

Commercial and Industrial
10

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Commercial and industrial demand rates will be dependent on the
type of facility constructed. These flows will need to be evaluated
on a case-by-case basis taking specific facility activity into account.
Information from the I.S.O. “Guide for Determination of Required
Fire Flow” can provide guidance. Generally, commercial areas range
from 1,500-2,500 gpm and industrial areas range from 2,000-3,500
gpm. In the absence of other information, the high end of the
above ranges shall be utilized.
Above typical fire flow rates desired by individual facilities may not
be possible without private, on-site fire hydrants, water storage
tanks, and fire pumping facilities. City Utilities shall be consulted in
accordance with Chapter W9 - Fire Services.

W5.08 Hydraulic Design Criteria
Sound engineering judgment shall be employed when designing water
distribution systems. The following sections outline specific design
requirements and considerations.
1.

Pressure and Flow Rate
All potable water distribution system projects shall be designed to
maintain a minimum pressure of 20 psi at ground level at all points in
the distribution system under maximum daily demand plus fire flow
demand. In addition, all distribution systems shall be designed to
maintain a minimum static (no flow) pressure of 35 psi.

2.

Velocity
Velocity in a water main shall be determined as follows:
V = 0.409 Q/D2
where:
V = velocity, ft/sec
Q = flow rate (referred to as design demand, see above), gpm
D = nominal diameter of pipe, inches
The maximum velocity of water within a proposed water main under
maximum daily demand plus fire flow demand (Design Demand) shall be
per Figure W5.1 as follows:

June 1, 2015

11

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Figure W5.1 – Maximum Velocity
Maximum Velocity
Corresponding Design
Pipe Diameter
(ft/sec)
Demand (gpm)
(inches)
12.22
1075
6
7.36
1150
8
4.68
1650
12
4.23
2650
16
Consult City Utilities
>16
3.

Data Requirements
•

Topographic

Topographic data including proposed ground contours and surface
features will be required for water main design. The general
improvement location criteria shall be referenced for determining
required topographic information.
•

Soils Testing (Survey)

Upon approval by the City Utilities for the use of ductile iron water main
a Soil Survey Report Form shall be completed. The presence of
corrosive soils along the proposed path of the water main shall be
investigated in accordance with AWWA C105/A21.5. All areas not
investigated shall be assumed to be corrosive. A formal soil survey
report or statement of assumed corrosive soils shall be submitted to
City Utilities during project design. Exhibit W5-4 Soil Survey Report
Form shall be used for submitting a soil survey report or statement of
assumed corrosive soils. All ductile iron pipe water main installed
within corrosive soils or assumed to be corrosive soils shall be wrapped
with polyethylene wrap. Refer to Chapter MA7 - Water Materials and
Testing Requirements for information on polyethylene encasement
material.
•

Flow Testing

Flow testing results, provided by City Utilities, representative to each of
the points of connection to the proposed project are required for design
basis of the proposed project and determine the adequacy of the
system to handle anticipated demands.
4.

Hydraulic Calculations
Hydraulic calculations that demonstrate the adequacy of design must be
submitted with each proposed project. The calculations must be
consistent with the requirements for calculations and shall address the
existing conditions and translation of the flow test results as well as the
determination of the changes in these conditions along existing water
mains. The calculations must demonstrate that the proposed design

June 1, 2015

12

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

meets the required design flow criteria in Section W5.07 at all most
remote points in the proposed potable water distribution system.
•

Hydraulic calculations completed for distribution system design
must be reproducible using the Hazen-Williams equation.
o

ℎ௙ = Piping friction losses, psi
Piping friction losses shall be calculated using the following
Hazen Williams formula for friction loss:
ℎ௙ = [10.44‫ܮ‬

ܳଵ.଼ହ
]/2.31
‫ ܥ‬ଵ.଼ହ ∗ ‫ ܦ‬ସ.଼଺ହହ

Where:
D = inside pipe diameter, inches
Q = flow rate, gpm
C = pipe roughness coefficient (100, 110, 120)
L = main length, feet
•

Commercial programs may be utilized to compute distribution
system hydraulic calculations but if requested by City Utilities must
be reproduced utilizing Hazen-Williams related equations.

•

General Hydraulic Calculation Requirements
A. Roughness Coefficients
Proposed projects must address design life expectancy of water
mains. The roughness coefficients to be used for existing pipe and
proposed pipe are shown in Figure W5.2.

Figure W5.2 – Roughness Coefficients
C Factor
120
120
120
120
110
100

Age of Pipe
New and Existing HDPE Pipe
New and Existing PVC Pipe
New Ductile Iron Pipe (24” or larger)
All Existing Pipe (Less than 20 years)
All Existing Pipe (20 to 40 years)
All Existing Pipe (Greater than 40 years)

Theoretical methods using constants other than C factors to
demonstrate pipe roughness must provide a demonstration of
equivalent assumptions. Site specific C factors shall be used for
existing pipe in lieu of the C factors presented in this subsection.
B. Minor Losses
Minor losses shall be determined when the length of the proposed
project is less than 1,500 times the diameter of the included pipe.
This determination to include minor losses must be included with
the calculations. Refer to Exhibit W5-5 and Exhibit W5-6 for the
Minor Losses Worksheets 1 and 2 as an aid in this determination.
June 1, 2015

13

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

C. Friction Losses
Friction losses along a water main due to pipe roughness shall be
determined when evaluating the adequacy of design. These friction
losses can be determined using Hazen-Williams theories. Refer to
Exhibit W5-7 Friction Losses, Unidirectional Dead End Segment
Worksheet for guidance in determining unidirectional, dead end
friction losses. Hardy-Cross theories can be utilized to determine
friction losses in loops of water mains. Exhibit W5-8 Friction Losses,
Unidirectional Single Loop Worksheet presents a worksheet for
determining friction losses over a loop of water mains.
D. Changes Due to Elevation
Hydraulic calculations shall be completed to evaluate static head.
The flow test data is applicable to the elevation of the pressure
hydrant and its relationship to and translation to the proposed
design is necessary.
5.

Translation of Flow Test Results
The flow test results prepared by City Utilities present current
performance capacity in the proposed project area. Using the static
pressure, residual pressure, and measured flow rate data from the flow
test and the design demand for the proposed project, the following
translation of the residual pressure shall be completed:
RPDD = STFT – [(STFT – RPFT) 1/0.54 * QDD/QFT]0.54
where:
RPDD = residual pressure at pressure hydrant location at design demand
STFT = static pressure at pressure hydrant location
RPFT = residual pressure at pressure hydrant location at flow test
measured flow rate
QDD = flow rate, design demand
QFT = flow rate, flow test measured
For larger development projects or main extensions that have
significant impact on the distribution system, City Utilities shall be
consulted to determine the need to review the proposed project
utilizing the City’s water model.
Exhibit W5-9 Translation of Flow Test Results presents a worksheet to
aid in the calculation of flow test results.

6.

Existing Water Main Conditions
The flow test pressure hydrant will likely not be the point of connection
for the proposed water main. As such, the effect of the existing water
mains between the pressure hydrant and the proposed point of
connection must be determined. These effects are calculated by minor
losses (if required), friction losses, and changes in elevation.

June 1, 2015

14

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Requirement of the calculation of minor losses is determined with the
aid of Exhibit W5-5 and Exhibit W5-6. Friction losses can be determined
with the aid of Exhibit W5-7 and Exhibit W5-8. Changes in elevation
must address both the elevation of the pressure hydrant and the
point(s) of connection.
7.

Most Remote Tests
Once the point of connection conditions are established, the adequacy
of the proposed water main design must be demonstrated by
determining if the performance criteria is fulfilled throughout. This shall
be accomplished by the use of “most remote tests”.
Most remote tests include the calculation of all performance criteria at
all “plausible” most remote locations in the proposed design. This
would include but not be limited to all end points to the proposed
distribution system, all areas of higher relative elevation, all points of
significant point demand, and all points furthest from a point of
connection (regardless if end point). Other plausible most remote
points may exist and must be investigated.
Each most remote test will include the effects of minor losses (if
required), friction losses, and changes due to elevation. Requirements
for the calculation of minor losses can be determined with the aid of
Exhibit W5-5 and Exhibit W5-6. Friction losses can be determined with
the aid of Exhibit W5-7 and Exhibit W5-8. Changes in elevation must be
relative to the pressure hydrant of the respective flow test.
All remote points must be investigated or stated why a location was not
investigated (i.e. redundant). Exhibit W5-10, Most Remote Test Results
provides worksheets for use in providing the results of the most remote
testing.

8.

Water Main Over-sizing
City Utilities shall be consulted to determine the need for water main
over-sizing to accommodate anticipated future demands.

W5.09 Water Main Pipe Requirements
Water main pipe requirements are as follows:
1. PVC or HDPE pipe shall be used for all new water mains with nominal
pipe diameters of 6-inches thru 16-inches. Consult City Utilities
Engineering for approval of any other pipe material.
2. All pipe materials shall be per Chapter MA7 - Water Materials and
Testing Requirements.
3. All water mains shall be constructed and tested per Chapter MA7 Water Materials and Testing Requirements.

W5.10 Joint Restraint
Adequate precautions must be taken to prevent the separation of joints at
crosses, tees, elbows, hydrants, valves, reducers and plugged ends. This shall
June 1, 2015

15

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

be done by the use of restrained joints. Concrete blocking only is not
acceptable.
1.

Restrained Joint Location Requirements
Joint restraint devices are required at the following locations and as
directed by the Engineer or Inspector:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

2.

Bends
Crosses
Tees
Fire hydrants
Reducers (both sides)
In-line valves
Plugs or caps
Pipe inside casings

Restrained Joint Calculations
Joint restraint lengths vary depending on multiple factors such as; the
type of fitting, surrounding soil conditions, pipe material, pipe diameter,
test pressure, depth of bury, restrained length encroachment etc. The
Ductile Iron Pipe Research Association (DIPRA) manual contains detailed
information on determining the required joint restraint lengths. Exhibit
W5-11, Exhibit W5-12 and Exhibit W5-13 lists minimum restrained joint
lengths calculated based on the DIPRA manual and typical site
conditions experienced in Fort Wayne. Each exhibit lists the
assumptions used to calculate the restraint length. If actual project
conditions differ recalculate the required restraint joint lengths. These
exhibits are not applicable when fittings are in close proximity and the
calculated restraint lengths overlap (encroach), refer to the DIPRA
Manual for encroachment calculations.

3.

Restrained Joint Materials
• Refer to Chapter MA7 - Water Materials and Testing Requirements
for acceptable types of Joint Restraint.
• The extent of the restraint shall be in accordance with the following
Standard Drawings: W-44, W-45, W-46, and W-47.

W5.11 Casing Pipe
In cases where the water main shall be installed inside a casing the following
criteria shall apply.
1.

Casing Pipe Requirements
Casing pipe shall be bare wall steel pipe with a minimum yield strength
of 35,000 psi. The inside diameter of the casing pipe shall be a
minimum of six inches (6”) greater than the outside diameter of the
carrier pipe joints or couplings. The casing pipe shall have a minimum
wall thickness as required by Figure W5.3 below:

June 1, 2015

16

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

Figure W5.3
Casing Outside Diameter
(inches)

Casing Wall Thickness
Highway Crossings
(inches)

Casing Wall Thickness
Railroad Crossings
(inches)

16

0.250

0.281

18

0.250

0.312

20

0.250

0.344

24

0.250

0.406

30

0.375

0.469

36

0.375

0.532

Minimum depth of cover of the casing pipe shall be 54 inches (54”) or as
required by the affected highway, railroad, etc.
City Utilities reserves the right to require larger diameter carrier pipes
to accommodate additional proposed or future utility lines.
Refer to Standard Drawing W-48 Typical Jacked and Bored Casing Pipe.
2.

Casing End Seals
The casing pipe shall have end seals between the casing pipe and the
carrier pipe to prevent the entrance of foreign material.
Refer to Standard Drawing W-50 Casing End Seals.

3.

Casing Spacers
The casing pipe and carrier pipe shall be separated by insulators,
spacers or skids. The insulators, spacers or skids shall be installed to
support the weight of the pipe and its contents. At a minimum, they
shall be placed a maximum of one foot (1’) from each side of a joint and
at maximum five foot (5’) intervals.
Refer to Standard Drawing W-49 Casing Spacers.

W5.12 Infrastructure Crossings
1.

Railroad Crossings
When any railroad is crossed, the specifications and precautionary
measures required by the respective railroad officials shall be followed.
A copy of the railroad crossing application and proof of approval from
the respective railroad entity shall be submitted to City Utilties. In the
absence of specific railroad requirements, the following general criteria
shall apply:
A. Criteria
The following criteria shall apply to instances in which water main
construction affects railroad rights-of-way and facilities. In certain
instances, the requirements of the specific railroad company may

June 1, 2015

17

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

be more stringent than these standards. In those instances, the
more stringent standard shall apply.








Water main shall cross tracks at an angle as close as possible to
90 degrees (90°).
Water mains crossing beneath railroad tracks shall be
constructed in bored and jacked casings.
Casing pipe under railroad tracks and across railroad rights-ofway shall extend to a point a minimum distance of 25 feet (25’)
from the centerline of the outside track or the right-of-way line,
whichever occurs first and a minimum of 5 feet (5’) beyond the
top of ditch bank within the railroad right-of-way.
Water mains laid longitudinally along railroad rights-of-way shall
be located as far as practical from the tracks. If the water main
is located within 25 feet (25’) of the centerline of any track, the
water main shall be encased or shall be of a special design as
approved by City Utilities Engineering.
Casings under tracks and across railroad rights-of-way shall be a
minimum of 54 inches (54”) deep as measured from the bottom
of the track rail to the top of the casing pipe.

B. Railroad Crossing Drawings
A railroad crossing drawing shall be prepared and address the
following:



Both a plan and profile view shall be provided. .
The following items shall be included on the drawing:
relationship between the proposed water and the railroad,
angle of crossing, location of utilities, original survey station of
the railroad (when available), right-of-way lines, limits of boring
or casing liner, topography, and general layout. The profile shall
clearly show the water main in relation to both the tracks and
existing ground elevations.

The crossing drawing and project drawings shall be submitted to
both City Utilities Engineering and the appropriate railroad company
for review and approval.
2.

Highway Crossings
When any highway is crossed, the specifications and precautionary
measures required by the respective highway officials shall be followed.
A copy of the highway crossing application or Right-of-Way permit and
proof of approval from the respective highway entity shall be
submitted. In the absence of specific highway requirements, the
following general criteria shall apply:
A. Criteria
The following criteria shall apply to instances in which water main
construction affects highway rights-of-way and facilities. In certain
instances, the requirements of the highway department may be

June 1, 2015

18

City Utilities Design Standards Manual
Water

Book 4 Chapter W5
Water Main Design

more stringent than these standards. In those instances, the more
stringent standard shall apply.











June 1, 2015

Water mains shall cross the roadway at an angle as close as
possible to 90 degrees (90°).
Water Mains shall not be placed under roadway bridges where
the possibility of restricting the required waterway area or
where a possibility of compromising the structural integrity of
bridge foundations exists.
Pipes crossing beneath highways shall be installed by jack and
bore method with a casing pipe, tunneling method or microtunneling method.
Borings under highways shall have a minimum depth of cover of
54 inches (54”) as measured from the surface elevation to the
top of the casing. The top of the casing shall have a minimum of
48 inches (48”) of cover below the invert of existing or proposed
ditches.
Borings under highways shall extend a minimum of 10 feet (10’)
(measured perpendicularly) outside the outer edge of existing
pavement or to the toe of slope when the roadway is on fill and
the toe of slope exceeds the 10 feet (10’) outside of pavement
requirement.
Water mains laid longitudinally along highway rights-of-way
shall be located a sufficient distance outside of the existing edge
of pavement to ensure worker and motorist safety during
construction.

19


