
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Live



Learn



Explore

Indy Parks and Recreation
Annual Report 2005

Mayor
Bart Peterson

Director
Joseph Wynns

Board of Parks and Recreation
Joseph Wynns, Chairperson
Richard J. Cockrum
Jacqueline S. Greenwood
Emily G. Nichols
William H. Stinson

City-County Council
Parks and Recreation Committee
Vernon Brown, Chairperson
Bob Cockrum
Susie Day
Ron Gibson
Monroe Gray
Dane Mahern
William Oliver
Earl Salisbury

Cover: Garﬁeld Park Conservatory
This Page: Garﬁeld Park Pagoda

Mission
Indy Parks and Recreation shall provide clear leadership and welldeﬁned direction for enhancing the quality of life for Indianapolis
and Marion County residents by providing park and recreation
resources and services that:
Provide and/or facilitate quality recreation and leisure opportunities;
Encourage and support natural and cultural resource stewardship
and environmental education;
Include safe, clean, and well-maintained park facilities for the
community’s fun and enjoyment;
Promote and facilitate mutually beneﬁcial countywide partnerships.

Indy Parks and Recreation
City-County Building, Room 2301
200 East Washington Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
(317) 327-PARK
www.indyparks.org

Greetings!

Table of Contents

We are pleased to present the 2005 Indy Parks and Recreation Annual
Report. In the past year, Indy Parks, together with the Indianapolis Parks
Foundation, received more than $1.5 million in grants to help fund unique
programs and services for Indianapolis residents. Creative partnerships with
schools, neighborhoods, social services, and local businesses also helped to
build and expand three family centers, revitalize and beautify economically
depressed areas, build a new greenway, and implement citywide health and
fitness initiatives.
Community investments like these are vital to enhancing and sustaining
the health, stability and quality of life of all Indianapolis residents. Indy
Parks is proud to have received national recognition for its commitment to
creating a world class parks system as a finalist for the National Gold Medal
Award for Excellence in Park and Recreation Management. The Gold
Medal Award, presented by the American Academy for Park and Recreation
Administration in partnership with the National Recreation and Park
Association, honors the nation’s outstanding park and recreation agencies.
We are thankful to our many public and private partners who understand
the importance and the value of parkland and recreational programming.
With your support, Indy Parks will continue to grow with our great city,
and residents and visitors alike will continue to live, learn, and explore
parks for many years to come.

2005 Highlights

4

Department Facilities

5

Grants, Alliances,
Partnerships, Sponsorships

6

Partnering for Success

7

Golf

8

Community Recreation
and Sports

9

Park Maintenance

10

Environmental Education
and Natural Resources

11

Greenways

12

Resource Development

13

Park Rangers

14

Financial Report

15

Director Joseph Wynns and Mayor Bart
Peterson with Windsor Village youth.

Bart Peterson, Mayor
City of Indianapolis

Joseph Wynns, Director
Indy Parks and Recreation

Building a World-Class City Neighborhood by Neighborhood
-Mayor Bart Peterson

3

2005 Highlights

Finalist, National Gold Medal Award for Excellence in Park and Recreation Management.
Provided services and facilities to 7.9 million park visitors through various programs, parks,
facilities, and greenways.
$1.5 million collected through partnerships, sponsorships, and donations.
Received over 30 grants for a total of $830,000.
Volunteers logged in 92,842 hours at park facilities and programs.
Completed 2005 Recreation Programming Master Plan and 2005 Facility Identiﬁcation
Master Plan.
1.5 million visits on the Indy Parks Web site, www.indyparks.org.
Indianapolis was named a Tree City USA for the seventh straight year.
Major Taylor Velodrome hosted the 2005 U.S. Masters Track Cycling Championships.
The AARP listed the Central Canal Tow Path in the Top 4 “Hikeable and Likable”
destinations nationwide.
Eagle Creek Park was the site of the NCAA National Rowing Championships.
Canal Tow Path Greenway named “Top 10 Trails” by Fitness Magazine (July 2005).
Joseph Wynns was named President-Elect of American Academy for Park and Recreation
Administration (AAPRA).
The new Bethel Park Family Center opened its doors to the public.

4

Live



Learn



Explore

Department Facilities
188 Parks
23 Aquatic Facilities
9 Greenways
20 Family Centers
13 Golf Courses
4 Nature Centers
4 Disc Golf Courses
2 Ice Rinks
2 Dog Parks
Mountain Bike Trail
Conservatory
Arts Center
Velodrome
Skate Park
BMX Complex
12 Spray Grounds

www.indyparks.org

5

Grants, Alliances, Partnerships, Sponsorships
The G.A.P.S. program ﬁlls the void between service delivery and necessary
resources. By forming mutually beneﬁcial partnerships with local
organizations and businesses, Indy Parks is able to expand its reach and
extend its services and diverse programs into all corners of the county.
2005 Accomplishments
Received over $830,000 in grants for everything from senior programming to capital
improvements to outreach services.
500 volunteers from One Heart, Many Hands logged in 18,720 hours in over 20
parks throughout Marion County.
Awarded a $10,000 grant from Safeco Insurance Co. for the restoration of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Park.
Partnered with the Indiana Marion County Public Library (IMCPL) to establish
“Infoports” – mobile carts with books and magazines to encourage reading, as well as
public computer stations that offer access to the internet and IMCPL’s catalog.
Sponsorships from Safeco Insurance Co., Friends of Garﬁeld Park, C.P. Morgan, and
Johnson Control Inc. contributed over $5,350 towards the 2005 Indy Parks Partner
Recognition Breakfast.
Partnered with the Indianapolis Private Industry Council (IPIC) to establish
community learning labs at three family centers. IPIC provided each lab with
computer equipment to assist city residents with job search and the development of
job skills.
Approximately 200 volunteers from Home Depot and CitiFinancial worked to clean
and restore Eagle Creek Park beach. Home Depot donated $5,000 in materials and
equipment.
Partnered with Watson-McCord Neighborhood Association, Safeco Insurance Co.,
and Keep Indianapolis Beautiful (KIB) to offer over $30,000 in materials, plants,
and labor to restore and beautify McCord Park.

6

Live



Learn



Explore

Partnering for Success
Local governance support groups advise, promote, and encourage
Indy Parks and Recreation by identifying community needs and
resources related to the parks and recreation system. From the areas
of preservation, future development or planning, and funding, our
boards, advisory councils, and committees serve the Indianapolis
community by protecting and promoting our parks as sanctuaries
for cultural, educational, and recreational activities.

Bel-Aire Park Advisory Council
Broad Ripple Park Advisory Council
Christian Park Advisory Council
Eagle Creek Park Foundation
Ellenberger Park Advisory Council
Friends of Eagle Creek Park
Friends of Garﬁeld Park
Friends of Holliday Park
Friends of Southwest Indy Parks
Advisory Council
Garﬁeld Arts Center Advisory
Committee
Garﬁeld Park Advisory Council
Greenways Foundation
Indianapolis Parks Foundation
JTV Hill Advisory Council
Krannert Advisory Council
Kuntz Advisory Team
Municipal Gardens Advisory Council
Northwestway Park Advisory Council
Raymond Park Advisory Council
Riverside Park Advisory Council
Southeastway Park Advisory Council
Thatcher Park Advisory Council
Washington Park Advisory Council
Watkins Park Advisory Council

www.indyparks.org

7

Golf

The Golf Division provides high-quality golf opportunities for people
of all ages and ability throughout the Indianapolis community. Core
responsibilities include managing municipal courses and contracts, as well
as overseeing planning and capital improvements at each course.
The 13 courses include:
Cofﬁn Golf Course
Douglass Golf Course
Eagle Creek Golf Course
Pleasant Run Golf Course
Riverside Golf Course
Riverside Golf Academy
Sahm Golf Course

Sarah Shank Golf Course
Smock Golf Course
South Grove Golf Course
Thatcher Golf Course
Whispering Hills Golf Course
Winding River Golf Course

2005 Accomplishments
The Indy Parks Junior Golf Program served 636 urban youth through its summer
golf program.
A partnership with IPS that offers the golf program in physical education classes
reached an additional 2,173 youth.
A new clubhouse was designed for Thatcher golf course to replace the old cart
storage building. Carts will be stored under the new facility in a basement that opens
onto the lower-level parking lot.
Cleared land to begin construction of the city’s 14th golf facility at 25th Street and
the Monon Trail to serve exclusively as a First Tee course and learning center. First
Tee was created by the World Golf Foundation in 1997 to bring golf to youngsters
who otherwise would not be exposed to the game and its positive values.
8

Live



Learn



Explore

Community Recreation and Sports
The Community Recreation and Sports Division provides highquality recreational services and sports programs to Marion
County residents. Our unique sports facilities including indoor
and outdoor aquatic centers, sports courts and ﬁelds, ice rinks,
velodrome, skate park, and a BMX track, are open to the public
for leagues, groups, or family fun!
Community Recreation’s core areas include:
Family Centers

Neighborhood Parks

Arts Services

Aquatics

Day Camps and After-School Programs

Sports

Therapeutic and Inclusion Services

Health & Fitness

2005 Accomplishments
Partnered with Indianapolis Public Schools (IPS) and the Metropolitan
School District of Washington Township (MSDWT) to offer after school
programming through a $918,360 grant from 21st Century Community
Learning Center.
Organized and hosted the First Annual TCU Indy Kids Triathlon with 75
youth participating.
Awarded $40,000 from United Way of Greater Indianapolis to fund a
Recreation Adventure Program (RAP) at IPS 27.
Served 30,945 youths through the free Summer Supervised Playground
Program.
Increased participation to 357 adults in the senior social dances, which were
developed to provide maturing adults with a ﬁtness and social outlet.
Entertained over 2,500 people with free movies at 12 different parks in the
summer.
Received a $7,200 grant from the Summer Youth Program Fund to support
Camp GATHER, which allows for children with disabilities to participate
in summer day camp programs.
Received a $30,000 grant for the rehabilitation of two basketball courts at
Douglass and Pride Parks from the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM).
Awarded a $31,000 grant from the Fernando Foundation (Atlanta, GA) in
sponsorship of the 2005 Power Soccer World Tournament, which hosted
150 athletes with various disabilities from 23 different countries.
Earned Honorable Mention for “Excellence in Youth Sports” Award
administered by Athletic Business Magazine.
www.indyparks.org

9

Park Maintenance

The Park Maintenance Division maintains Indy Parks’ facilities and parks.
Operating elements include beautiﬁcation, forestry (including street trees), grounds,
facility maintenance, land improvement, natural resources, and land stewardship.
2005 Accomplishments
Completed the ﬁrst of many improvement projects for the historic Kessler
Park and Boulevard System (National Register of Historic Places).
Installed 11 new landscapes at various Indy Park facilities.
Converted 13 annual ﬂower beds to perennial beds, thus reducing
maintenance requirements.
Facilitated numerous volunteer groups to aid in tree care, ground
maintenance, and plantings.
Installed 4 new picnic shelters at Tolin-Akeman Park, Northwestway Park,
Emhardt Park, and Coward Park.
Installed 5 new playgrounds at Emhardt Park, Barton Park, Hawthorne
Park, Bel-Aire Park, and Southwestway Park.
Responded to 450 tree-related emergencies including removal of storm
debris and hazardous trees.
Processed 27,000 Christmas trees into quality mulch to be used for city
playgrounds and parks through the Christmas Tree Recycling program.
Oversaw planting of over 59,000 trees on city property.
Implemented YAP (Youth Arboriculture Program), an arborist vocational
training program that graduated 5 students within the IPS system.
Reached 11,000 IPS elementary students with Arbor Week programs.

10 L i v e



Learn



Explore

Environmental Education and Natural Resources
The Environmental Education and Natural Resources Division
provides quality environmental education and facilities to the
community while protecting and preserving the natural assets of
Indianapolis parks for people and wildlife.

2005 Accomplishments
Reached over one million visitors at environmental education facilities.
Developed 144 new programs offered to the public.
Expanded adult education programs attracting over 8,000 attendees.
Responded to over 6,000 citizen calls seeking natural resources expertise.
Received $8,500 from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
to help with reforestation and prairie installation efforts at Southwestway
Park and Eagle Creek Park. USFWS also contributed $2,000 for understory
plantings at Memorial Grove.
Offered Continuing Education Units to local professionals in various
disciplines.
Reached a total of 70,000 youth in outreach environmental education
services such as the Hub Naturalist program.
Awarded a $10,000 IPALCO Golden Eagle Grant for prairie installation
and invasive vegetation control along Fall Creek.
Installed 60,483 native plants countywide and 2,414 wetland plants at the
Scott Starling Nature Sanctuary.
Planted 2,354 upland herbaceous plants countywide.
Installed approximately 55,715 native trees and shrubs as part of
reforestation projects or for landscaping.
Reforested 95 acres of park property and seeded 47 acres with native species.

www.indyparks.org

11

Greenways

The Greenways Division manages and
maintains the greenways system within
Marion County to provide recreational and
ﬁtness opportunities; promote open space
conservation; link neighborhoods together
with other parks and community assets;
educate the public about the importance of
the natural environment; promote economic
development by making Indianapolis a
desirable place where new businesses can
locate; and redevelop and manage the
Marion County bicycle routes as part of the
Indianapolis Regional Bicycle and Pedestrian
Plan, which will connect the greenways and
parks and recreation system to communities.

2005 Accomplishments
Millennium Trail Designation – Federal Trails Program
– Monon Rail Trail
Completed the ﬁrst 1.5 miles of the 16-mile Eagle Creek
Trail from 56th Street south to 46th Street.
Construction underway for the Fall Creek Trail from 56th
Street to Skiles Test Park.
Completed plans for the Monon Trail to Central Avenue.
Pedal & Park served more than 2,000 cyclists and skaters
with free bicycle and roller-blade parking for events such as
the Broad Ripple Art Fair, Carmelfest, Indiana State Fair,
Penrod Arts Fair, and Bike to Work Day.
8,356 hours logged by volunteers who helped with
trail maintenance, cleanup projects, and landscape
beautiﬁcation.
Completed three cleanup projects at Fall Creek, White
River, and Pogues Run.
Partnered with the Department of Public Works,
Indianapolis Public Schools, Winthrop Supply Co., and
area neighborhood associations to create 49th Street/
Monon Art Mural.

12 L i v e



Learn



Explore

Resource Development
The Resource Development Division steers the direction of Indy
Parks and Recreation through resource planning, capital asset
development, and sustainable strategic tactics. In addition to the
planning tasks, this division is also responsible for construction
management and project inspection, land acquisition, and real
estate services.
2005 Accomplishments
Co-hosted “Hidden Treasures of Indianapolis: Historic Landscapes and
Gardens and the People Who Created Them” – a national symposium to
raise awareness of and interest in cultural treasures in the city. Highlights
included discussions with nationally recognized experts on the landscape
designs of George Kessler, Jens Jensen, and the Olmstead ﬁrm.
Constructed a new Bethel Park Family Center: 11,000 square foot facility
with a gymnasium, meeting room, staff ofﬁces, game room, and computer
lab.
Partnered with 21 students from Franklin Central High School’s
Architecture and Engineering Club to beautify and improve Thompson
Park. Students worked closely with park planners in the production of the
Thompson Park Master Plan. In the summer of 2005, Mayor Bart Peterson
honored students for their efforts with the “Excellence in Education
Award.”
Consolidated maintenance operations and reduced costs by purchasing a
new 33,000 square foot centralized maintenance facility.
Began construction of the Mary and John Geisse Soccer Complex at Eagle
Creek, an 18-ﬁeld soccer and sports complex located at 56th Street and
Reed Road.

www.indyparks.org

13

Park Rangers

The Park Rangers Division implements education safety programs,
develops community policing strategies, and is responsible for
enforcement of city ordinances, parks policies, and procedures.
2005 Accomplishments
Park Rangers made over 71,000 park visits and worked directly with over
120,000 individuals.
Park Ranger Tony Burrello received a gold medal in weightlifting while
participating in the World Police and Fire Games (Quebec, Canada).
Provided public safety at over 30 events with the help of Reserve Park
Rangers.
Increased attendance in the Park CrimeWatch program to over 1,000
participants. The program was created in an effort to prevent crime and
vandalism to playground and park equipment. It relies on community
involvement to report suspicious activities and crime.

14 L i v e



Learn



Explore

Indy Parks and Recreation
Condensed Financial Report
for the year ending December 31, 2005

Revenues
Taxes
Charges for Services
State and Federal Grants
Sales and Lease of Property
Local Grants and Donations
Interest and Other Operating Revenues
Total Revenues

$19,024,192
4,553,239
1,490,383
258,920
103,998
189,391
$25,620,123

Other Financing
Sources
Prior Year Encumbrances (Parks General)
Consolidated County Allocation
Motor Vehicle Highway Allocation
Current Year City Cumulative Capital Allocation
Total Other Financing Sources
Total Revenues and Other Financing Sources

$ 5,897,196
1,625,000
1,197,012
3,129,990
$11,849,198
$37,469,321

Expenditures
Park and Recreation Fund
Capital Purchases and Capital Improvements
Total Expenditures

www.indyparks.org

$25,882,266
6,800,208
$32,682,474

15

Live



Learn



Explore

Indy Parks and Recreation
City-County Building, Room 2301
200 East Washington Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
(317) 327-PARK
www.indyparks.org



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Cultural Legacy
“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens
can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.”
~ Margaret Mead

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Park

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

43

Cultural Legacy
The man-made or Cultural Legacy section of the
inventory describes the historic and modern features
of the built environment as they relate to recreation
opportunities in the county.
INTRODUCTION
The National Park Service (NPS) has developed
guidelines for identifying, categorizing and preserving cultural features (landscapes, archeological
sites and historic properties). A complete Cultural
Landscape Inventory of the county is beyond the
scope of this park comprehensive plan. However,
these guidelines will be used to inventory the primary
existing cultural features that are associated with
recreation opportunities located here. Future actions,
which are identified in this Plan, will identify cultural
features associated with recreation and leisure activities in the county that are owned by Indy Parks.

immigrants. The influence of German immigrants is
still evident today with the popular annual Oktoberfest
held at the privately owned German Park (30 acre, 8600
South Meridian Street), and at the Athenaeum (401
East Michigan Street), the German cultural and social
center. The Athenaeum originally housed a gymnasium,
restaurant, bowling alleys, concert-hall ballroom and a
wall-enclosed beer garden with concert pavilion. Today, the Athenaeum is still a social and cultural center
that includes a YMCA location, a theater group and a
restaurant.
In a similar time period, the Native-American population rose from 4 people in 1870 to 2,181 people in
2000. There were a reported 650 African-Americans
in Marion County in 1850, and 207,964 in 2000. Indianapolis does not have as diverse of an ethnic heritage as
other cities, such as Chicago and Detroit, however, its
moniker of being the “Crossroads of America” speaks
to the growth of contemporary communities here.

PEOPLE
PLACES
In recognizing the importance of the cultural history
of Indianapolis and Marion County as a part of the
recreational experience, a brief history of its people is
included here.
Historic Communities
According to James J. Divita in the Encyclopedia of Indianapolis, “Indianapolis’ first residents were squatters
along the banks of White River, Fall Creek, Pogues Run
and Pleasant Run.” Among them were John McCormick
and George Pogue. Later early residents of the area
included Cheney Lively Briton, Alexander Ralston’s
housekeeper and probably the first permanent African–American resident; Calvin Fletcher, and Nicholas
McCarty. Appendices in Peopling Indiana show a total
population in Marion County of 24,103 in 1850, with
1945 (8.09%) foreign born. The influx of immigrants
peaked in 1910, when the census showed a foreign born
population of 21,210 but still, 8.04% of the total population. Other appendices show that the primary countries’
of origin in 1869 were Canada, England, France, Germany, Ireland, Scotland, Switzerland, and Wales.
Near its peak, in 1910, the largest numbers of foreign
born originated in Austria, Canada, England, Germany,
Hungary, Ireland, Russia, and Turkey-Europe. In 1869
and 1910 the largest foreign born population originated
in Germany with 69% and 42%, respectively, of the

44

Recreation places and the types of leisure activities
have changed as the social and economic context of
the world has evolved. Placing the development of
parks in this context is a means to understand the correlation between park type, activities and needs and
the growth of the city from a small settlement on the
White River to its position as the 12th largest city in
the United States. The following history of parks in
Indianapolis documents the development of its park
and recreation activities.
History of Parks & Recreation
The following text was written by Michelle D. Hale for
The Encyclopedia of Indianapolis.
A time sequence of specific park development was inserted by the planners to establish a history and context
for park acquisition and development. Text located in
brackets [ ] is written by the planners.
During the early planning and development of the
city there seemed no need for planned public parks.
Alexander Ralston’s original plan (1821) of the Mile
Square did not include any designated public spaces.
Early residents used pastures, cemeteries, and all
undeveloped land about them as recreational areas.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
As the Civil War approached and the city experienced
congestion for the first time, however, citizen action
in favor of public parks began slowly to build. In
1859 Timothy Fletcher donated a plot of land to the
city with the provision that it be improved and used
as a park. The City Council, believing Fletcher’s
gesture was a ruse to elevate the value of his adjacent
land, refused his offer. Other private donations were
also viewed with suspicion, and the council chose not
to act upon them.
Using a different tactic, George Merritt was responsible for the first public park in Indianapolis. He
repeatedly petitioned state and local authorities for
donation of state land for use as a public park. Governor Oliver P. Morton offered the land now known
as Military Park for use as a recreation area, and in
1864 the City Council took over protective control
of Military Park as well as University Square and the
Governor’s Circle.
[Although the Civil War slowed the development of
new, urban Romantic landscapes like that at Central
Park (1857) in New York; the city still followed the
trend for large urban parks designed for passive recreation. The example set by Central Park and emulated
in park design throughout the United States provided
a “variety of rural scenes” (open meadows, canopied
areas, ponds, rock formations) and separate pedestrian
and vehicular routes. As is typical for the Midwest,
efforts for such development lagged behind coastal
areas, but still moved forward. Midwestern landscape
architects and architects, (e.g. Jens Jensen and Frank
Lloyd Wright, etc.) eventually applied a Midwestern
“hand” to park and residential design. These designers and their peers, emulated the Midwestern natural
landscape, using stratified limestone, winding streamlike water features and native plant species in the
planting beds. The following paragraph identifies the
first examples in Indianapolis of the larger, strolling
parks located around the periphery of the existing
city.]
By the 1870s citizens became more vocal in their
desire for public parks, and the City Council launched
a tentative program for park purchases. In 1870
the city acquired Brookside Park from the heirs of
Calvin Fletcher. Three years later a group of northside residents petitioned the council for a park along
Fall Creek, with seven citizens donating 91.5 acres.
The northside project failed to gain council support,

but similar efforts by a group of southside residents
ultimately led to the purchase of Southern Park, later
renamed Garfield Park. Again the council did not
develop this property, and the city leased it to the
Indiana Trotting Association between 1877 and 1880.
By the 1880s residents privately and in combination
with the city [another typical Midwestern action]
improved all these park lands. Merritt funded Military Park’s original improvements and subsequently
installed a playground. Neighbors of the University
Square property voluntarily landscaped the park, and
the Odd Fellows of Indiana erected a statue of VicePresident Schuyler Colfax there. Citizens planted
trees in Garfield Park and carried other improvements
funded by the council. Additionally, residents in the
area of St. Clair Square created their own park, collecting subscriptions, laying walks, and planting trees.
These 19th century public parks were intended for use
as passive recreation areas where middle class and
wealthy citizens could relax and enjoy nature.
[The time period commencing after the Civil War and
ending at the turn of the century can best be described
as a transitional period in landscape design. The early
manipulation of the North American landscape was
transformed in the 20th century into an American design
entity that was based in social, political, technical, and
environmental principles that elevated “design” to a
new role. At the same time that social concerns were
being strengthened by the revitalization of the country
after the war, the increasing numbers of city dwellers
were becoming less interested with the passive activities
offered at the public parks and demanded more active
recreation facilities.
The 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia
showed the acculturation of the United States as
a world class country. Among various exhibits of
industrial and commercial affluence; planting beds
featured exotic and ornamental specimens planted
in various geometric shapes. This departure from
the naturalistic landscape approach was inspired by
the writings of British horticulturist, J. C. Loudon,
who advocated non-native species and “artistic” arrangements of plants. Color, variety of species and
the visual impact of individual features were more
important than the cohesiveness of a unified design.
Planting designs using “bedding” plants were inspired
by this exposition and remain popular today.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

45

Cultural Legacy
According to Pregill & Volkman in Landscapes
in History, “To Victorians, leisure represented the
opportunity for educational and morally uplifting
travel, social contacts and physical recreation.” The
Romantic landscapes were “improved” with features
that were less a part of a unified design statement
and more an embellishment on the land. The public expected entertainment, variety and organized
activities at the parks. Improvements included formal
promenades, bandshells, conservatories, zoos, floral
displays and amusement areas. Garfield Park (1873)
was “improved “ using these principles.]
[During this same period, the two small parcels of
land (Indianola-1896, McCarty Triangle-1897) were
acquired for parks.]
[Near the end of the 19th century, the World’s Columbian Exposition in 1893, significantly changed
the way a city was planned. The two cultural ideals of the 19th century—the physical improvement
of the environment, and the moral improvement of
society—coalesced, and were given an American
identity called the City Beautiful Movement. The four
components of the movement were (1) Civic Design,
(2) Civic Art, (3) Civic Reform, and (4) Civic Improvement. Among the objectives of the movement
were to establish hygienic urban conditions, create
focal points in the streetscape to visually unify the
city, and to treat open spaces as a critical urban need,
emphasizing active rather than passive recreation.]
City officials immediately consulted nationally
prominent park designers to guide park development.
The Commercial Club initially hired Joseph Earnshaw, who recommended that sites be purchased and
developed along White River and Fall Creek, connected by a chain of small parks and interconnecting
parkways. Once established, the park board conducted a survey of possible park sites and commissioned
John C. Olmsted, stepson of Frederick Law Olmsted,
Sr. to develop a plan for future parks. The Olmsted
plan, like the Earnshaw plan, recommended that local waterways be the focus of a system that would
include small parks, boulevards, several larger local
parks, and a large public reservation.
Mayor Thomas Taggert, who assumed office in 1895,
was a strong supporter of parks and was instrumental
in laying the foundations for the park system. At his

46

behest the council approved a limited version of the
Olmsted Plan and authorized the purchase of over
1,100 acres of land, including much of what now is
Riverside Park. [Brookside (1898), Spades (1898)
and Highland Park (1898) were acquired at this time.]
Much of the land bought at this time had previously
been used as unauthorized dumping grounds. The
park department saw its job as ridding the city of unclean and unhealthy areas as well as providing beautiful recreation spaces. Park improvements included
landscaping, building water features, and adding
walking paths and benches, with the bulk of the work
focusing on Riverside and Garfield parks. Parks also
began to provide entertainment such as the 18-hole
golf course, zoo, and steamboat cruises on White
River at Riverside Park.
In 1905 the Board of Park Commissioners learned
of George Kessler (1862-1923), who was both a city
planner and a landscape architect, and his excellent
work on the Kansas City park and boulevard system.
Kessler was hired in 1908 as the Consulting Landscape Architect and secretary of the park board. He
retained the landscape architect position until 1915.
During his employment, Kessler proceeded to update many of the earlier plans and introduced ideas
that quickly added to the beauty of Indianapolis. In
1909 he helped pass a new park law that allowed
the department to levy taxes for park purchases and
improvements. Other laws enacted in 1913 and 1919
increased the department’s self-sufficiency and taxing
power. The legislation enabled the department to
expand, acquire new property, and begin boulevard
construction.
Despite the city’s official sponsorship, citizens continued to actively support park development during
the early 1900s by donating property or funding park
improvements. The bequests of Alfred Burdsal and
George Rhodius in 1911 funded the purchase and development of Willard Park (1907), Burdsal Parkway,
and Rhodius Park (1913). [Pleasant Run Parkway was
established in 1912, Fall Creek Parkway in 1914, and
White River Parkway in 1916. The establishment of
Pleasant Run Parkway began the connection of Ellenberger Park (1911) to Garfield Park. South Grove
Golf Course (1902), Irvington Circle (1904), Wilbur
Shaw Hill (1908) were all a response to the need
for variety in recreation activities. The Iron Skillet
Restaurant (1908) overlooks the Coffin Golf Course

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
(1920).] Woolens Gardens (1909) was donated to the
city by William Watson Woolens, who asked that the
land be preserved as a bird sanctuary and botanical
study area. John H. Holliday (1916) deeded his 80acre estate to the city for use as a public park. Municipal Gardens (1915) was originally called Casino Gardens, a private canoe and yacht club, and then dance
hall. It was renamed Municipal Gardens in 1927.]
[Another important topic that was beginning to be
addressed in the leisure parks of the late 19th century
was that of active recreation. Organized sports were
becoming popular as a result of social concerns for
the well-being of poorer urban children and the assimilation of non-English speaking immigrants. In
other, more well-to-do neighborhoods, active recreational activities were in vogue, perhaps as a result
of the national organization of such activities as
football (1895) and gymnastics (1881). Hundreds of
adults and children participated in sandlot activities.
These activities and other active sports, required more
space, equipment and constructed features and led to
more “improvements” in the already existing parks.
The national trend for active recreational opportunities resulted in the development of playgrounds.
With the encouragement of President Theodore Roosevelt, the great outdoorsmen, the Playground Association of America was organized in 1906. Large cities
allocated money and land to develop these facilities.
The city of Boston authorized the development of
20 playgrounds, and the city of Chicago allocated
$1,000,000 for the construction of small parks and
pleasure grounds containing not more than 10 acres.]
[Early playgrounds were little more than a barren lot
with play equipment (swings and teeter-totters, etc.)
installed. Other small playgrounds were developed
on school property if space permitted, offering school
children year-round opportunities for supervised activities and exercise. As money and interest developed, later playgrounds were designed by landscape
architects and typically displayed a better sense of
organization, circulation, function and safety.
The “typical” playground, although officially called
a park, offered a variety of activities for all ages of
people. Norman T. Newton describes the playgrounds
in Design on the Land in the following way: Age
groups were given distinctive areas, appropriately
furnished: play spaces for children, open-air exercise

areas for men and women, usually divided by sexes,
courts for games, wading and swimming pools, and
fieldhouses for indoor recreation. In each case the
park… included a bit of greenery thought essential to
a visual oasis in a neighborhood. Landscape features
that were associated with playground design include a
central pavilion or fieldhouse set among trees, a large
open space for ball games, a perimeter path, space for
exercise equipment, and perimeter trees to define the
site. The number of park-school complexes located
historically in Indianapolis is unclear at this time, but
the following neighborhood parks were acquired in
this time period. Watkins Park (1913), Lot K (1915)
and Fall Creek and 30th Park (1910) were established
as a node on the parkway, and other small land acquisitions included Noble Place (1912), Brightwood
(1916), and Greer Park (1917).]
During World War I the city suspended most park
activities and funding. In the 1920s the department
resumed park purchases and expansion. The park
system grew to include 24 parks and parkways, with
land totaling approximately 1,900 acres.
During the 1920s, a comprehensive plan for park
development was prepared by landscape architect
Lawrence V. Sheridan. This plan incorporated the
early work of Olmsted, Powers and Kessler into an
even larger plan that encompassed the entire county.
Sheridan’s plan was excellent for its time, however,
it was not regularly updated by subsequent planners;
with the result that population growth began to outstrip development.
The idea that public parks should provide active, as
well as passive recreation originally surfaced before
WWII, but recreational programming did not become
a high priority until later. As early as 1910 the park
board joined with public school and library officials
to provide recreational programs, gradually accepting
more of this responsibility. In 1919 a new park law
transferred the recreation division from the
City’s health department to the public parks department, which began constructing a system of playgrounds, pools, and community recreational centers
in parks. Parks soon provided a variety of year round
athletic programming, classes, clubs, and special
events. The centers also provided bathing facilities,
day nurseries, dental clinics, and served as a neighborhood headquarters for welfare agencies.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

47

Cultural Legacy
properties, and sponsoring dances. Park community
houses became popular, low-cost centers of activity
during the 1930s, housing many clubs and classes as
well as providing space for other groups.

[Recreation and sports centers that were opened at
this time included Garfield (1922), Emhardt Stadium
(1923), and Brookside (1928). Golf courses included
Pleasant Run (1922), Douglass (1926), and Sarah
Shank (1928). Specialty parks included Miniature
Park (1923), and the Watson Road Bird Preserve
(1925).
The influence of the Playground Association and the
increased interest in active recreation is evidenced by
the number of neighborhood parks that were established in the 1920s. A total of 15 neighborhood parks
were built and included the following:
J. T. V. Hill
(1921)
Haughville
(1922)
Frank Young
(1922)
Hawthorne
(1923)
Bertha Ross
(1925)
John Ed
(1925)
Centennial & Groff (1926)
Broadway & 61st (1928)
Lentz
(1928)
Arsenal
(1929)

Alice Carter Place (1922)
Kelly
(1922)
Babe Denny
(1923)
Porter Playfield (1924)
Denver
(1925)

At the same time that small playgrounds were being
developed in neighborhoods to realize the Playground
Association’s goal of “a playground for every child,
within one-half mile of its home,” larger parks with a
variety of amenities were also being developed. These
parks, because of their acreage, offered a variety of
recreational opportunities that could not be offered
in smaller playgrounds. Larger community parks that
were acquired at this time were Christian Park (1921)
and Washington Park (1923-The zoo was not built
until 1964).]
During the 1930s the system of neighborhood parks,
playgrounds, boulevards, and recreation areas in
Indianapolis grew despite the Great Depression. The
department, however, began to charge fees for some
of its operations, such as the golf courses, swimming pools, and community houses, to make them
self-sustaining. At the same time volunteers from
women’s groups, civic organizations, and WPA and
CWA workers augmented the parks’ work force. Park
activities focused on city beautification projects and
year-round recreational activities: completing Lake
Sullivan, constructing wading pools, staffing summer
playgrounds, landscaping the boulevards and public

48

[The length of the following list of properties acquired in the 1930s supports evidence that the expansion of the parks was greater in the 1920s, before
the Great Depression, and improvements in existing
parks were more popular in the 1930s. Christian Park
Recreation Center was opened in 1932, and only 4
neighborhood parks were acquired (Acorn (1930),
Reverend Mozel Sanders (1931), Bethel Park (1935)
and Forest Manor (1937).]
Despite the expansion of park facilities and programs,
a Charity Organization Society study in 1937 found
only 20 percent of public park acreage was within
a two-mile radius of half of the residential population. The park department’s major strategies for land
acquisition had been to receive donations or purchase
cheap land on the outskirts of town, the intended
policy of buying small parcels of land within walking
distance of all residents throughout the city remained
largely unimplemented by the 1940s. [This is evidenced by the addition of only one neighborhood park
before the war—Ross-Claypool (1940).]
The World War II years added temporary new responsibilities for the public parks—running canteens and
clubs for servicemen and providing land for postwar
veteran and emergency housing.
[The end of World War II brought the Baby Boom to
the United States. The increased population brought
a need for more single-family houses (the American Dream), created suburbs, and demanded the
expansion of schools and school playgrounds and
parks to satisfy the need of the public. The acquisition of more parkland was not the immediate need,
however, as evidenced by the few parks that were
acquired in the late 1940s. Broad Ripple Park, the
former amusement park, and Marott Park were both
donated in 1945. Three neighborhood parks—Barton (1946-gift), Tarkington (1945) and Centennial &
20th (1946-gift)—were acquired. Another donation
to the park department was the Sarge Johnson Boxing
Center (1945).]
After the war and into the 1950s however, the park

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
department again turned its attention to recreation and
city beautification. The playground system expanded,
and parks continued to sponsor a growing number
of clubs, classes, and “teen canteens.” Although the
parks had long hosted festivals, the 1950s saw the increase of music festivals, carnivals, and dances, many
of which were revenue-producing projects.
By the late 1940s the city renewed its efforts to
beautify and restore its parks. Much of the park
property and existing facilities had not had significant
improvements made to them in at least 20 years, and
large bond issues in the early 1950s helped pay for
much of the renovation.
Athletics became increasingly important after the
1940s and the parks provided sites for many boxing,
basketball, and baseball leagues and tournaments,
including some of national significance; …one of

ening and prompted important changes in the county's
park management. Prior to 1963, all public parks
were under the jurisdiction of one or another of the
county’s municipalities, the majority being found in
Indianapolis. City and county officials recognized the
metropolitan character of the county and the need to
provide park facilities to those residents living outside
of incorporated municipalities, as no suitable areas of
sufficient size remained within the corporate boundaries.
This precipitated the creation, in 1963, of the Metropolitan Board of Park Commissioners. It replaced
the City Board of Park Commissioners and extended
jurisdiction throughout the county with the exception
of the towns of Speedway, Lawrence, Beech Grove
and Southport.
Rising rates of suburbanization and competition with

In the end, we conserve only what we love. We will love only
what we understand. We will understand only what we are taught.
– Baba Dioum
which was the 1958 AAU national championship
swimming meet at Broad Ripple Park. Golfing also
became a high priority during these years, with the
parks department hiring golf pros to assist patrons and
oversee courses.
[Parks that were acquired during the 1950s were
primarily smaller neighborhood and mini-parks. The
neighborhood parks were:
Moreland
(1953) Virginia Lee O’Brien (1956)
Ridenour
(1956) Bowman
(1959)
Sandorf
(1959)
Mini-parks:
DeQuincy
(1953)
Doris Cowherd (1956)
Canterbury
(1959)

Windsor Village
Beville

(1953)
(1959)

Northwestway Park, a community park, was acquired
in 1957, as a beginning response to the city moving
further from downtown.]
The population boom, which occurred following
World War II, found the open space situation wors-

private sources of recreation during the 1960s forced
park officials to change the focus of public parks.
Downtown properties increasingly received less attention as the park department devoted resources to
parks nearer the suburbs and purchased park land in
suburban townships. Financed by Indianapolis and
Marion County taxes, the park department purchased
Northeastway (now Sahm Park-1961), Southeastway
(1961), [Southwestway (1961)] and Eagle Creek Park
(1962).
[The 1960s experienced the acquisition of large tracts
of land near the county perimeters. Two community
parks were acquired-Gustafson (1961) and Perry
(1961). Golf courses were constructed at Sahm
(1964), Thatcher (1967), and Southwestway (1968);
swimming pools were installed at Sahm (1962), Douglass (1968), and Gustafson (1968); and recreation
and special leisure facilities-Post Road (1960), Bush
Stadium (1967), and the Woodruff Place Esplanades
(1962) were acquired. Neighborhood parks were
also important acquisitions-11 parks were acquired
during this time period:

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

49

Cultural Legacy
Faculty Drive
Martin Luther King
Bellamy
Gardner
Gateway West
Foxhill Manor
Carson
Southside
Dubarry
Olin
Roselawn
Pride mini-park

Rhodius
Martin Luther King
Perry
Thatcher
Bethel
Ellenberger
Brookside
Willard
Garfield

(1961)
(1961)
(1962)
(1962)
(1963)
(1964)
(1965)
(1966)
(1967)
(1967)
(1968)
(1968)]

Not all downtown efforts were forsaken, however, the
department began a perennial effort at park promotion
by encouraging neighborhoods, clubs, and civic
groups to “adopt” and help maintain a park.
Changes continued during the 1970s. A unified government (UNIGOV) expanded the Indianapolis service boundaries to include all of Marion County and
reorganized the Department of Parks and Recreation.
Citizen interest in parks fell as suburbanization and
park vandalism increased. Public parks also competed for space and resources with urban expansion and
renewal efforts. The parks department responded by
experimenting with new programs and projects. Using millions of dollars from federal grants and local
bond issues, it constructed a system of small, special
use parks known as “tot lot” and “vest pocket” parks
along highways, refurbished deteriorating facilities,
built new facilities, expanded recreational programs,
and made extensive improvements to Eagle Creek
Park, which opened in 1974. The parks department
also renamed many central city parks after notable
local and national African-Americans, reflecting the
changing nature of park visitors.

Neighborhood Parks:
Beckwith
(1970)
Smock
(1970)
Tibbs & 21st
(1971)
Stout Field
(1974)
Tot lots (Mini-parks):
Stringtown
Christina Oaks
Andrew Ramsey
Clayton & LaSalle
Ringgold
Sexson
Talbot & 29th
Hot Shot Tot Lot

[The following lists illustrate the expansion of the
parks in the 1970s:
Recreation Centers:
Southeastway

(1972)

Thatcher

(1976)

Golf Courses:
Eagle Creek

(1975)

Smock

(1975)

Swimming Pools:
Riverside
Wes Montgomery

50

Community Parks:
Wes Montgomery
Franklin/Edgewood
Paul Ruster
German Church & 30th
Pedigo Farms
Krannert
Oxford Terrace
Thatcher
Skiles Test

(1970)
(1971)

(1971)
(1972)
(1972)
(1972)
(1973)
(1973)
(1978)
(1978)
(1979)

(1970)
(1970)
(1970)
(1971)
(1971, Raymond Park)
(1972)
(1972, Oscar Charleston)
(1973)
(1974)

Franklin & 16th (1971)
Juan Solomon (1971)
Robey
(1972)

(1970)
(1971)
(1971)
(1972)
(1973)
(1973)
(1973)
(1975)]

While these efforts resulted in notable success, such
as the institution of the Indianapolis/Scarborough
Peace games, a general lack of park usage, inadequate maintenance, and vandalism became serious
problems, especially for central city parks. . . . Parks
on the outer edges of the city, especially Eagle Creek
Park, and the golf courses, however, offered first rate
facilities and programs.
A new parks administration began a greater focus on
amateur sports during the 1980s, which inspired a
resurgence in park usage and image. The department,
in an effort to supply a unique recreation need to the

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
community, began to phase out smaller central city
parks in favor of large natural-setting parks and linear
parks equipped with fitness and bike paths. Eagle
Creek Park became the showcase of the park system
during the 1980s, offering a lake, nature trails, and
many recreation facilities. Large bond issues funded
amateur sports facilities, such as the Lake Sullivan
Sports Complex and the Major Taylor Velodrome,
which along with the eleven golf courses became
venues for special events as well as local and national
competitions. The Indianapolis Zoo also relocated
from Washington Park in 1986 to the new White
River State Park. [The shift in priorities is evidenced
by the shortness of the following list of acquisitions:
Special Leisure Facilities:
Indianapolis Soccer & Sports Center (1984)
Little League Regional Center
(1989)
Neighborhood Parks:
Kessler & Illinois
(1982, Friedman Park)
Eagle Highland
(1989)
Linwood & Shelbyville
(1989, Tolin-Akeman)
Mini Parks:
Highway Parcel # 15
Finch

(1980)
(1988)]

As of the early 1990s, the Indianapolis Department
of Parks and Recreation continued to fight vandalism and public apathy. While the department offered
a wide variety of traditional recreational and nature
programs, many were underused due to competition

from private and commercial providers of recreational
facilities.
The park system of the early 1990s claimed 73 properties, 16 community centers, 13 pools, and 12 golf
courses.
[Park acquisitions in the 1990s include:
Whispering Hills Golf Course (1990)
Post Road Community Park
(1990)
Glenn's Valley Park
(1992)
Juan Solomon Park Addition
(1995)
WISH Park
(1995)
Thompson Park
(1999)
Golc Soccer Fields
(1999)
Beginning in the mid 1990's an emphasis has been
placed on providing recreation lands to the public
through the use of Recreation and Conservation
Easements or long term leases. These low cost
partnerships have allowed the additions of Town Run
Trail Park, The Frank and Judy O'Bannon Soccer
Fields and the Golc Soccer Fields. Another avenue
for acquiring parkland has been advocacy for donations from land developers. As a part of re-zoning
negotiations, acreage has been donated for neighborhood parks as well as floodplain natural areas. Some
have included playground and trail improvements or
the funds to construct amenities. Examples include
Thompson Park, Cloverleaf Conservation Area, the
Little Buck Creek Greenway and Retherford Park.

West 30th Street Bridge

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

51

Cultural Legacy
In the early 2000's, the Department partnered with
the Indianapolis Parks Foundation, local donors and
worked to secure grant funds to purchase 187 acres
adjacent to Southwestway Park. The Cottonwood
Lakes and Mann Property additions make Southwestway Park the second largest park in Marion County at
586 acres including Winding River Golf Course. In
2003 the Department partnered with the Department
of Public Works to open 43 acres of the Pogues Run
Detention Basin to the public for recreational use.

Grassy Creek Park
(2000)
Town Run Trail Park
(2000)
Little Buck Greenway
(2001)
Mann Property Addition
(2002)
Frank and Judy O'Bannon Soccer Fields (2003)
Cottonwood Lakes Addition
(2003)
Basswood Park
(2003)
George E. Kessler Park
(2003)
Pogues Run Basin
(2003)
Beginning in 2004, the Department received 185 of
the 384 acres acquired during this period via donations from numerous sources. During this time the
department installed 1.5 miles of Fall Creek Greenway (Kessler to Skiles Test Nature Park) and added
its third Canine Companion Zone at Paul Ruster Park.
In 2007, the Department was the primary host for
National Recreation and Park Association's National
Exposition and Congress that included over 10,000
delegates from park systems all over the world. New
Family and Nature Centers were completed or started
at Eagle Creek's Earth Discovery Center and Windsor Village Park and new club houses were finished at
Smock and Thatcher Golf Courses.

Spades Park Entrance
The 1.5 miles of trail offer an opportunity for exercise
and offer a venue for future art installations.
Through a generous grant from the Lilly Endowment,
Indy Parks has embarked on a significant expansion
of its programmed facilities in recent years. New
family recreation centers at Washington Park and
Bethel Park, as well as additions at Christian Park,
Municipal Gardens and Rhodius Parks will greatly
expand the Departments ability to offer low cost
recreation programs in additional City neighborhoods.
The renovation of the Indy Parks (Garfield) Arts
Center will provide a center of focus for County-wide
visual, performing and literary arts programs. The
new Eagle Creek Park Earth Discovery Center will
allow for tremendous expansion of environmental
education. The extension of the Monon Trail from
Fall Creek south to 10th Street has finally connected
much of Indianapolis' north side to downtown.

52

Griffin Woods Park
Riverwood Park
Retherford Park
Stamm Park
Franklin & 38th Park
Edgewood & 21st Park
Peace Park
Emhardt Park
Acton Park
Blickman Trail
Wight Fields
Grassy Creek Regional Park
Broad Ripple Canoe Launch
Dollar Hide Creek Park
Colorado & 29th Park
Hanover Park North Park
Copper Grove Park
Red Maple Park
Kitley & Troy Park

(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2004)
(2006)
(2006)
(2006)
(2006)
(2006)
(2007)
(2007)
(2007)

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy

THE KESSLER LEGACY
As mentioned in the History of Indianapolis Parks,
George E. Kessler was hired in 1909 to assist with
planning the continued growth of the City. The following is a excerpt from the 2003 nomination to the
National Register of Historic Places for the system
Kessler designed.

George Kessler

Statement of Significance
The Indianapolis Park and Boulevard Plan is significant under Criterion A because it is associated with
broad patterns of national, regional and local history,
and because it is a response to the early 20th century
trend to regulate growth in cities. It is also significant
under Criterion C because it is the work of George
Edward Kessler, a master in landscape architecture,
and because it embodies the distinctive design characteristics of a master as a response to urban conditions
in the early 20th century.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

53

Cultural Legacy

54

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
Historical Context

A Master of Landscape Architecture

At the turn of the century, the United States was
changing from a rural agricultural based country to an
industrial world power. This transition brought several challenges, one of which was the articulation of
a national identity that would distinguish the United
States as a world-class country. Other challenges
were the health and welfare of the growing urban
populations of unskilled workers and immigrants
who moved to the cities for jobs in factories; and the
growing concern for the conservation of the country’s
natural resources, whose limits were beginning to
be realized. In this era of transition, the Midwest,
Indiana, and Indianapolis were not exempt from these
challenges. Indianapolis as the State Capitol, as the
largest city in the state, and as a growing urban center
located on the east-west and north-south crossroads of
America, led the state in addressing these challenges.
The nominated Park and Boulevard Plan is the city’s
response. The Indianapolis Park and Boulevard Plan
of the early 20th Century, is significant as a city plan
whose foundation was the existing natural features of
the area, and whose visionary design, by a nationally
known landscape architect, transformed open space,
vegetation, water, and roadways into multifunctional
resources designed to improve the quality of life of
the citizens. The plan merges art and engineering into
a comprehensive plan that is still being used today.

The visionary system combined components of parks,
parkways and boulevards into the first comprehensive
urban plan for Indianapolis. Landscape Architect
George E. Kessler designed the master plan in 1909,
with some alterations in the following years. Kessler
unexpectedly died in 1923, and landscape architect,
Lawrence Sheridan, expanded the plan to the county
limits. The plan is one of eighteen park and boulevard plans that Kessler designed for cities across the
United States. It is also one of two-hundred thirty
known projects attributed to his one-man office. It is
the first Kessler park and boulevard system in Indiana
and was subsequently followed by plans for South
Bend, Fort Wayne and Terre Haute, Indiana. Kessler
was a part of the second generation of landscape architects practicing in the United States, following the
early pioneers of the profession; Frederick Law Olmsted, H. W. S. Cleveland and Jacob Weidenman. His
design work was not a response to the City Beautiful
Movement, but rather his own interpretation of the
importance of melding classic design and formality
with natural resources to improve the quality of life of
his constituents.
The plan is significant as a planned urban system,
because it uses the classical German city planning
tenets to organize the circulation system to accom-

Plan Development

Fountain Square Fountain

The Indianapolis Park and Boulevard Plan resulted
from a combination of early park planning efforts
(1873-1907), the visionary system plan of nationally
known Landscape Architect George Kessler (19081923), and the later improvements that continued his
plan or expanded it to the county limits (1924-fifty
years ago). It unites individual parks and curvilinear
green spaces with an array of east-west and northsouth boulevards to link the city in a network of transportation and recreation corridors that also function
to guide urban growth, conserve the natural environment, limit water pollution, and provide flood control.
Overall, this urban plan improves the quality of life
of its residents, fosters economic growth, equates Indianapolis with other world-class cities, and preserves
the natural environment for sustained, long–term
growth and development of the city and region.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

55

Cultural Legacy

56

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
modate all forms of transportation, from the central
downtown business core of the city to the outlying
regions, thus laying the foundation for future growth
in the city. The conservation of the natural resources
of the city and the health of the constituents were the
main priorities and the basis of the system. The plan
uses engineered structures, such as bridges, seawalls,
dams and levees to control flooding, which in turn
contributed to the health of both the residents and
the environment. The health of the citizens was also
a component of the plan, where open space, natural
vegetation, playgrounds, playfields, wading pools,
and strolling paths provided recreation and social opportunities.
To Germans, city planning was a “fine art and a technical science, ” 1 planned with deliberate and conscious determination. Kessler skillfully manipulated
the resources to serve many functions at one time.
Open spaces are more than just green; roads are more
than automobile thoroughfares; and water is more
than a natural feature. In so doing, the engineered
function of a resource was always overlain with an
artful hand that used quality of life in human context
as the key design criteria.

A:

response to a trend to protect the natural
environment.
The plan is significant in Health/medicine and
Social History because it is an example of a
response to a trend for government to provide public recreation facilities, open space,
and clean water as a means to improving the
health of the citizens.

National Park Service Criterion C:
C:
The plan is significant in Community planning and development because it is an example of comprehensive German town planning.
C:
The plan is significant in Transportation
because it embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type of system (German).
C:
The plan is significant in Engineering because
it illustrates turn of the century flood control measures, and construction techniques
(bridges, road layout).

Taggert Memorial

Kessler is often overshadowed by the work of the
Olmsteds, however his talent and designed plans
are located throughout the country. An example of
his talent is the park and boulevard system located
in Indianapolis. The parkways, more than any other
property type in this nomination, are a complete
synthesis of engineering and art. They merged the
City Beautiful tenets of design with the City Practical,
where function and beauty were equally considered.
Intricate Beaux Arts details on built structures, added
art to functionality, solidifying the unity between classic design and modern technology within the natural
setting of Indianapolis.
AREAS OF SIGNIFICANCE
National Park Service Criterion A:
A:
The plan is significant in Community planning and development because it is a physical
manifestation of the American ideal.
A:
The plan is significant in Community planning and development because it is the first
comprehensive urban plan for Indianapolis.
A:
The plan is significant in Conservation because it is an example of a turn of the century
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

57

Cultural Legacy
C:

C:
C:

The plan is significant in Entertainment/recreation because it is an example of recreation
planning at the turn of century.
The plan is significant in Landscape Architecture because it is the work of a master.
The plan is significant in Landscape Architecture because it has high artistic value.

(Footnotes)
1
The German Way of Making Better Cities, Sylvester
Baxter, Atlantic Monthly, 104, July 1909: 72-95"
As can be learned from the above documentation,
Indianapolis Department of Parks is the steward of
a cultural treasure. Few single nominations in the
nation have encompassed so many acres (3400+),
arrayed over such a large expanse of a City. The system as defined by the National park Service includes
parks, boulevards and parways as well as contributing
features such as bridges, landscapes and other built
features.
The placement of this system on the National Register
in 2003 raised the profile of this resource in the eyes
of City, State and National leaders, Department staff
and the public. The question leaders face now regards how to celebrate the resource we have; through
continuing and improving its maintenance, restoring
where appropriate its intended character and design
and educating the public about the designed landscape that we live in and benefit from daily.
CONNECTIONS
History of the Connections
The Encyclopedia of Indianapolis provides a comprehensive overview of transportation in Marion County,
including information on the development of the
railroad, the Interurban system, riverine and vehicular
transportation. The focus of this history is related to
the park system and concerns the development of the
Parkway and Boulevard System. The following text
is taken from the Encyclopedia of Indianapolis and
was written by Glory-June Greif. Text written by the
park planners is located in brackets [ ].
In part a response to the “City Beautiful” ideal
popularized by the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Indianapolis initiated a number of
expansions and improvements in its city parks around
the turn of the 20th century. With the idea of reserved

58

greenspace came the notion of attractive thoroughfares, usually winding alongside streams, connecting
various points within the town. The thoroughfares
were intended to be largely recreational, providing pleasant drives around the city with occasional
benches and suitable picnic spots provided.
The prospect of a boulevard following Fall Creek
from Capitol Avenue to the then-new Indiana State
Fairgrounds on Maple Road (38th Street) arose as
early as 1901 in discussions of the Indianapolis Board
of Park Commissioners, itself only in its seventh
year. By 1906 Fall Creek Boulevard was completed
between Capitol and Central Avenue, as was most of
a section of Pleasant Run Boulevard (later Parkway)
between Raymond and Beecher streets. Other boulevards in progress were along the levee on the east
bank of White River north of Michigan Street, and
another northward through Riverside Park from the
stone dam (still extant), near where the Emrichsville
Bridge had recently been built, to 30th Street. From
the beginning Indianapolis planned parks for its boulevards. City engineers did not lose sight of this link
in succeeding decades, thereby seeking and ultimately
achieving, to a degree, a true system of wide parkways with broader intermittent expanses like green
beads on a cord.
The original park-boulevard plan was the work of
George Kessler, a landscape architect hired by the
park board. . . . The construction of Fort Benjamin
Harrison in 1906 brought a proposal from the federal
government to build a boulevard connecting the army
post with the city. The park board suggested it could
easily be an extension of Fall Creek Boulevard. Ultimately, the plan came to fruition in the 1930s, when
workers of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration and Works Progress Administration fulfilled
the dreams of the early park planner and completed
lengthy stretches of Fall Creek Parkway, Pleasant Run
Parkway, Riverside Parkway, and Kessler Boulevard.
[The following map illustrates Kessler’s Parkway
and Boulevard System. Note that in addition to the
Park ways along Pleas ant Run, Pogue’s Run, Fall
Creek, White River, and Eagle Creek; north-south and
east–west connections include 38th Street, Emerson,
Keystone and Capitol Avenues, Meridian Street, and
Kessler Boulevard, North Drive.]

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Cultural Legacy
Indianapolis Greenways
[Today’s Indianapolis Greenway system is based on
a nearly 100-year old plan by renowned landscape
architect, George Kessler. Kessler’s 1909 Park and
Boulevard Plan for Indianapolis made specific plans
for a boulevard and trail system along Indianapolis’
waterways. Determined by the physical features of
the city, Kessler proposed a chain of continuous parks
that would extend to every neighborhood of the city.
By acquiring open spaces adjacent to boulevards, the
city could create a series of small neighborhood parks
and playgrounds for the entire community. Another
key aspect of Kessler’s plan was the preservation of
low-lying areas near streams and rivers to protect
natural floodways. Kessler argued for reserving land
along the city’s rivers and streams for parks and using
tree-lined boulevards to connect the parks. The result
of this plan would be a parkway system that would
greatly benefit the city.
In 1928, Lawrence V. Sheridan, a landscape architect
for the City of Indianapolis, expanded the Kessler
Plan to the county boundary and included tributaries like Little Buck Creek, Little Eagle Creek and
Lick Creek into the plan, which were also included in
the 1982 Indianapolis Parkway System Plan. Today,
Kessler’s and Sheridan’s legacy of identifying and
preserving linear parcels of parkland for pathways
and open space is being recognized as enhancing the
quality of life in Indianapolis.

Council created the White River Greenway Development Board by special resolution to continue these efforts. The board, in conjunction with the White River
Greenway Foundation, Inc. (WRGFI) (a not-for-profit
funding source), organized events such as a riverbank
clean-up project which removed over 700 tons of
trash, involved thousands of volunteers and raised
hundreds of thousands of dollars to support the greenway cause. In January 1994, the board recommended
it be reconstituted as the Indianapolis Metropolitan
Greenways Commission to reflect the regional interest in the greenway movement and to recommend and
support the implementation of the 1994 Indianapolis
Greenways Plan. In 1995 this commission evolved
further when the Indianapolis City-County Council,
by general ordinance, established the Indianapolis
Greenways Development Committee. The designated
purpose of the Committee is to advise the Board of
the Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation
and to encourage use, preservation and improvement
of the Indianapolis Greenways with regard to present
and future operations, development, recreation and its
natural environment.
Indianapolis Greenways Mission:
•
•

•
Greenway Development Board
•
In 1990, the Indianapolis City-County Council created the White River Greenway Task Force. The
council charged the task force with “the mission of
researching governmental jurisdictions affecting the
river; considering carefully the river’s importance in
such areas as recreation, homes, general aesthetics,
wildlife, trees, flora, businesses, drainage, agriculture,
bridges, the edges of the river and quarries; and concluding with a practical, imaginative, and consensus
plan for the future improvement of White River and
its banks for the benefit of the people of this city.”
A year later, the council established the task force as
a permanent committee and made it responsible for
“implementing the strategic plan for the White River
linear park/greenway corridor and [its] operation and
maintenance.” In 1991, the Mayor and City-County

•

•

Provide opportunities for recreation and fitness
trail activities.
Protect important wildlife habitat and promote the
conservation of open space, forests and wetland
areas.
Link Indianapolis neighborhoods with each other
and with parks and other community assets.
Educate the public about the importance of the
natural environment of the Greenways System.
Become an economic asset to the community by
promoting economic development and by making
Indianapolis a desirable place where new businesses can locate.
Redevelop and manage the Marion County Bicycle Routes as part of the Indianapolis Regional
Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan, which will connect
the Greenways and Parks System to communities
within the Regional Plan

Although the Kessler plan is nearly 100 years old, the
first modern bike and pedestiran trail was constructed
in 1995 along a portion of Fall Creek and the system
has grown to 40.7 miles with over 150 miles planned.
The existing 40.7-mile system consists of an old rail

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

59

Cultural Legacy
corridor, a historic 170-year-old canal, and numerous trails following some of the rivers and streams
throughout the county. The Indianapolis Greenways
system is intended to interconnect parks, neighborhoods, schools, libraries, and other areas of interest
within Marion County.

2004
Fall Creek Greenway (Stadium Drive to White River
Greenway)
Pogues Run (Sherman Drive to Dequincy Avenue
loop trail)

This linear park system has the potential to reach
more communities acre for acre than the entire
neighborhood and community parks system combined. Greenways also provide self -directed recreation, such as hiking, walking, jogging, bicycling and
in-line skating. Providing a multitude of activities,
greenways also integrate communities, including
amenities offered within the Indy Park System.
Greenway Trail construction by year:

2005
Eagle Creek Greenway (56th Street to 46th Street)
Pike Connectivity Plan (Georgetown Road to Eagle
Creek Park---DPW multi-modal path)
2007
Fall Creek Greenway
(56th Street to Skiles Test Park)
Fall Creek Greenway (Geist Dam Trail)
2008
Fall Creek Greenway (Pennsylvania Street to Meridian Street-reconfiguration)

1995
Fall Creek Greenway (Keystone to 56th Street)

Township Connectivity Plans
1996
Monon Rail-Trail (86th Street to Broad Ripple Ave.)
1997
Fall Creek Greenway (Central to Delaware Street)
Central Canal Towpath(52nd Street to College Avenue)
White River Greenway (16th to 38th Street)
Monon Rail-Trail (86th to 98th Street)
1998
Monon Rail-Trail (Broad Ripple Ave to Fall Creek)
Pleasant Run Greenway(Garfield to Ellenberger Park)
Central Canal (52nd to 30th Street)
1999
White River Greenway (16th to 10th Street)
2001
Little Buck Creek (Sonesta and Buck Creek Village)
2002
Fall Creek Greenway(Delaware to Meridian Street)
2003
Fall Creek Greenway(Monon to Keystone Avenue)
Monon Rail-Trail(Fall Creek to 10th Street)
Little Buck Creek (Bayberry Village)
Eagle Creek Greenway (Kentucky Ave. to White
River)]

60

[In an effort to continue the successes of the Indy
Parks Greenways development, planning staff have
undertaken to draft Connectivity Plans for two of
Marion County's 9 townships to date (Pike and Franklin). These plans are a continuation of the Greenways
system, at a finer scale. While the Greenways Master
Plan focuses on 16 corridors, the Connectivity Plans
include lesser connections within the community.
Using a combination of Department of Metropolitan Development and Department of Public Works
planned roadwork, existing and planned greenways,
high tension line corridors, rail corridors and streetside projects, these plans knit communities together.
Destinations include residential areas, parks, schools,
commercial centers, libraries, post offices and other
institutions.
By focusing on one Township at a time, and through
a series of public meetings, knowledge is passed from
residents to staff to develop the best connections
within neighborhoods. These plans are used by city
planners, developers, and neighborhood advocates
to continue to piece together small connections, each
a step toward a more pedestrian friendly city and a
healthier and happier lifestyle.]

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Identified Needs

To sit in the shade on a fine day and look upon verdure is the
most perfect refreshment. ~Jane Austen

Monon Trail
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

153

Identified Needs
of the country. The top ten activities in Indianapolis
are:

REVIEW OF INFORMATION
After reviewing the data gathered and generated in the
investigation of our needs, it is clear that some interpretation of the information is needed. This section of
the Comprehensive Park, Recreation and Open Space
Plan deals directly with the interpretation of research
information in addition to comparisons of information
gathered from selected cities and their park agencies.

1. Walking or Hiking
2. Bicycling or Roller-Blading
3. Picnicking
4. Walking the Dog

TRENDS ANALYSIS

5. Attending a Special Event

From surveys done by the USDA-US Forest Service
concerning outdoor recreation, it is clear that Americans are serious about walking. Of those responding,
83% said that they walk for pleasure, making it the
most popular activity in the nation. The National Survey on Recreation & the Environment, a survey done
by the USDA for nearly 50 years, also points to long
term trends. The number of people who ride bicycles
for recreation has gone from 17 million in 1960 to over
80 million in the year 2000. The top ten recreation
activities from the survey, taken in 200, include the
following:
1. Walking for Pleasure

6. Viewing Wildlife
7. Going to a Playground
8. Attending an Outdoor Concert
9. Swimming
10. Playing Golf
For indoor activities, 27% indicated that they participated in Fitness Activities, making it the most popular
indoor activity among respondents. The Top-Ten
activities were:

2. Family Gatherings

1. Fitness Activities

3. Visiting a Beach

2. Reading Area and/or Library Use

4. Visiting a Nature Center

3. Team Sport Instruction

5. Picnicking

4. Adult Educational Programs

6. Sightseeing

5. Arts & Crafts Programs, Music & Visual
Arts Classes*

7. Attending Outdoor Sports Event

6. Computer Lab Use

8. Visiting Historic Sites

7. Facility Rental

9. Viewing Wildlife

8. Youth Development & Drop-in
Basketball*

10. Swimming in Lakes and Streams
According to a recent survey done by the Indianapolis
Parks and Recreation, 79% of the people responding
indicated that they "Walked or Hiked," making it the
number one outdoor activity among respondents. From
the initial analysis of the survey, the recreation activities in Indianapolis are very similar to those in the rest

154

9. Day Camp, Drama & Dance Classes*
10. After-School Programs & Gymnastics*
* Indicates a Tie

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
Other National Trends in recreation include:
Senior program expansion to include
more active programs
Closer control and higher level of organization with youth sports
Art and physical fitness programs for
youth provided by parks departments not
schools
Use of schools as recreation centers after
school hours
Growth of recreation as a therapeutic or
rehabilitative resource
Infusion of health and fitness initiatives
into recreation programming
Cultural Tourism

RECREATION TRENDS & CURRENT STATUS
From the previous Comprehensive Plan, completed in
1999, we can see that walking for pleasure is still the
most popular outdoor recreation activity in the United
States. With the country's current emphasis on fitness
and healthy living and eating, walking for pleasure, not
to mention good health, will more than likely continue
to be the most popular activity in America. It requires
minimal investment of money, no training and can be
accomplished almost anywhere there is a smooth and
reliable walking surface.
According to the nationwide survey completed by the
U.S. Forest Service, the second most popular activity
in the U.S. is a Family Gathering. Here in Indianapolis, we see a somewhat different trend in the most
popular activities. Based on our survey in the spring
of 2004, Bicycling, Roller-Blading and/or Skateboarding came in as the second most popular outdoor activity. Although these activities may not be traditional
Family Gatherings, there are large numbers of families
that ride, roller-blade, and/or skate as a family on our
greenways and in our parks.

Major Taylor Skate Park
BENCHMARK ANALYSIS
In the process of looking at Indianapolis in comparison
to other cities, we first looked at the cities used in the
last comprehensive plan update and expanded upon it by
adding a few more cities that we felt either were similar
to Indianapolis in demographics or were competitors for
industry, jobs and even tourism. This "benchmarking"
process enables us to compare apples to apples as closely
as we can with other cities and is valuable in identifying
areas of improvement. The same eleven (11) cities were
chosen for the 2009 update that were used in the 2004
plan. Benchmark comparisons were made with these
cities in the areas of:
•
•
•
•
•

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Acres of parkland
Parkland to population standards
Spending per Resident
Park units per every 10,000 Residents
Park staff per every 1,000 Residents

155

Identified Needs
PARK ACREAGE ANALYSIS

Regional Center

Generally, when compared to the other cities, Indianapolis is about average in most respects. When you begin
to breakdown the analysis, you can see more closely
where Indianapolis falls. The average park acreage per
resident among selected cities is 12.9 acres per 1,000
residents. Indianapolis currently has 15.0 acres per
1,000 residents when all public parks are considered,
and 13.3 acres per 1,000 residents when only considering parks owned or managed by Indy Parks. Portland,
Oregon has the most acres per 1,000 residents with 24.5
acres, while Detroit has the least amount with only 6.2
acres per 1,000 residents. The chart on the following
page shows the selected cities and the acreage for each.
Indianapolis' Comprehensive Land Use Plan recommends 17.3 acres per 1,000 residents.

The Regional Center area (bounded by 16th Street on
the north, I-65/I-70 on the east, I-70 on the south, and
the previously proposed alignment of Harding Street
on the west) has significantly changed in last 10 years
with increasing development and special events the
infrastructure and open space needs have changed as
well. With the continued expansion of conventions,
hotels, special events, and residential development
swelling the capacity of the Regional Center Area
along with normal day to day employment of the
public and private sectors it is apparent that more
greenspace is needed. Therefore, staff recommends
a study commissioned by Parks identifying the open
space and recreational needs in Regional Center. (See
Action Plan) The amount of open space recommended
would be based on the actual residential units, hotel
availability, employment numbers, special event estimates and other factors that increase the population in
Regional Center.
This recommendation is in line with Objectives 22-3 and
22-4 of Regional Center 2020 Plan and should be used
when evaluating proposals for spaces such as former
Market Square Arena and Canal Park open space.

2010 Census
Open Space recommendations are based on 2000 Census
numbers. Staff also recommends (and lists as an action
step) updating this section after 2010 Census to get
projected park and open space needs prior to the next
Park Comprehensive Plan update in 2013.

5(*,21$/&(17(5$(5,$/3+272*5$3+



156





2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
P ark A c reage in S elec ted C ities
S elec ted
C ities

P ortland, O R
C inc innati
C olum bus , O H
H ous ton
M ilw auk ee
M inneapolis
S eattle
S t Louis
A tlanta
S an F ranc is c o
D etroit

P opulation

A ll P ark land
(A c res )*

537,081
332,252
733,201
2,169,248
951,252
372,833
582,454
353,837
486,411
744,041
918,849

A c res per
1000
R es idents

13,402
6,909
13,254
34,748
14,975
5,844
6,050
3,381
3,754
5,384
5,890

25.0
20.8
18.1
16.0
15.7
15.7
10.4
9.6
7.7
7.2
6.4

A verage ac res per 1000 res idents for the above s elec ted c ities

14.4

Indy P ark s Juris dic tion
Indianapolis

14.1
15.3

792,000
860,454

11,140
13,172

* A ll Parklland inc ludes all parks and pres erv es ow ned by c ity , c ounty , s tate and
f ederal agenc ies w ithin the boundaries of the s elec ted c ities .

P erc ent of City Land Devoted to P ark s
S elec ted
Cities

S an F ranc is c o
M inneapolis
P ortland, O R
Cinc innati
S eattle
Colum bus , O H
M ilwauk ee
Hous ton
S t Louis
Detroit
A tlanta

City A rea
(A c res )

29,884
35,130
85,964
49,898
53,677
134,568
154,880
370,818
39,630
88,810
84,316

A ll P ark land
(A c res )*

5,384
5,844
13,402
6,909
6,050
13,254
14,975
34,748
3,381
5,890
3,754

A verage P erc entage of P ark land for the above s elec ted c ities

Indianapolis

231,342

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

13,172

P ark land as
P erc entage
of City
18.0
16.6
15.6
13.8
11.3
9.8
9.7
9.4
8.5
6.6
4.5

%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%

10.1 %

5.7 %

157

Identified Needs
Land Devoted to Parks

Spending per Resident

Another valuable comparison that can be made is the
amount of city land that is devoted to parks. Although
some cities are much larger than Indianapolis, it is still
valuable when you look at cities very closely resembling Indianapolis in landscape character. The average
amount of land devoted to parks is 10.1%, with San
Francisco having the most amount (18.0%) and Atlanta
having the least amount (4.5 %.) Indianapolis has only
5.7 % devoted to parks, well below the average and only
slightly better than Atlanta. In fact, of the selected cities,
Indianapolis is second to last in this category. This data
is presented in the chart on the previous page.

Another general comparison presented here is the
amount of spending on parks and recreation per resident. The data for the following charts comes from
Inside City Parks, published by the Urban Land Institute
and the Trust for Public Land. According to data published in 2006, Indianapolis spends approximately $46
per resident for parks. The national average for park
spending is $102 per resident. San Francisco spends
$268, the most per resident among selected cities, while
Houston spends the least at $39 per resident. Among
selected cities, Indianapolis ranks next to the bottom
in this category.

P ark S pending per Res ident (A djus ted)
S elec ted
Cities

S an F ranc is c o
S eattle
M inneapolis
Cinc innati
P ortland, O R
A tlanta
Colum bus , O H
S t Louis
Detroit
M ilwauk ee
Hous ton

A djus ted
S pending

$199,640,885
$140,966,899
$56,463,572
$46,650,881
$72,311,172
$56,424,619
$57,132,618
$21,815,789
$50,800,000
$49,669,200
$85,098,895

P opulation

744,041
582,454
372,833
332,252
537,081
486,411
733,201
353,837
918,849
951,252
2,169,248

A verage Dollars per Res ident

Indianapolis

$36,586,392

Dollars
per
Res ident
$268
$242
$151
$140
$135
$116
$78
$62
$55
$52
$39
$102

792,000

$46

* A djus ted s pending c ons is ts of operating and c apital ex penditures minus
ex penditures as s oc iated w ith mus eums , s tadiums , z oos and aquariums

158

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
P a rk U n its per 10000 R e s idents
S e le c te d
C itie s

P a rk U n its

S eattle
M in n e a p o lis
S a n F ra n c is c o
P o rtland, O R
S t Louis
A tlanta
D e troit
C in c in n a t i
H ous ton
C o lu m bus , O H
M ilw a u k e e

P opulatio n

430
182
220
290
107
352
389
364
380
410
154

582,454
372,833
744,041
537,081
353,837
486,411
918,849
332,252
2,169,248
733,201
951,252

P a rk U n its
per 10000

7.4
4.9
3.0
5.4
3.0
7.2
4.2
11.0
1.8
5.6
1.6

A verage P a rk U n its per 10000 re s idents fo r s e le c ted c ities

4.0

In d ia n a p o lis

2.6

206

792,000

* If a c ity h a s mo r e th a n o n e a g e n c y , p a r k u n its a r e c o mb in e d

S e le c t e d
C it ie s

P a rk S t a ffin g p e r 1 0 0 0 R e s id e n t s
Num ber of
R e g u la r, N o n S eas onal
P o p u la t io n
E m p lo y e e s

S e a t t le
M in n e a p o lis
S a n F ra n c is c o
P o rt la n d , O R
S t L o u is
A t la n t a
D e t ro it
C in c in n a t i
Hous ton
C o lu m b u s , O H
M ilw a u k e e

1002
580
849
408
265
339
620
208
1027
309
285

582,454
372,833
744,041
537,081
353,837
486,411
918,849
332,252
2,169,248
733,201
951,252

A ve ra g e S t a ff p e r 1 0 0 0 re s id e n t s fo r s e le c t e d c it ie s

In d ia n a p o lis

346

E m p lo y e e s
per 1000

1.72
1.56
1.14
0.76
0.75
0.70
0.67
0.63
0.47
0.42
0.30
0.72

792,000

0.44

* Re g u la r , n o n - s e a s o n a l e mp lo y e e s in c lu d e s f u ll & p a r t- time s ta f f a s FTEs ,
b u t e x c lu d e s s e a s o n a l s ta f f .

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

159

Identified Needs
Adopted Standards for Indianapolis-Marion County Park Areas

Indianapolis

Regional Park
Standard
10.0 acres/ 1000
population

Community Park
Standard
6.0 acres/1000
population

PARK STANDARDS
Park standards that have been adopted by Indianapolis
help us determine not only where parks are needed, but
also how many acres of parkland or miles of greenways
we need in certain areas of the county. The adopted
standards, carried over from 1999 and 2004, are illustrated in the following chart.
Regional Park Standards
The current service level averages out at 6.2 acres
of parkland per 1,000 people. With a standard of 10
acres of regional parkland/1,000 population, a standard
adopted by Indianapolis during previous Comprehensive Planning processes, we would need 3294 acres of
regional park land to meet the standard. That would
be a park twice the size of Ft. Benjamin Harrison State
Park
Park Supply - Regional Parks
Township

Acres

Population

Acres per 1000

C e n ter

2 0 6 .5

16 7 ,05 5

1 .2

D e catur

4 1 0 .7

24 ,72 6

1 6 .6

F ra nklin

1 8 5 .86

32 ,08 0

5 .8

6 6 .2 9

11 1 ,96 1

0 .6

0

92 ,83 8

0 .0

4 2 8 4 .3 4

71 ,46 5

6 0 .0

1 5 2 .07

93 ,94 1

1 .6

W ash in g to n

0

13 2 ,92 7

0 .0

W a yn e

0

13 3 ,46 1

0 .0

Totals

5305.76

860,454

6.2

L a w re nce
P e rry
P ike
W arre n

Trail Standard
.15 miles/1000
population

Townships but not enough to reach the standard.
Park Supply - Community Parks
Township
C e n te r
D e c a tu r
F ra n klin
L a w re n c e
P e rry
P ik e
W a rre n
W a sh in g to n
W a yn e
Totals

Acres
3 9 3 .8
0 .0
0 .0
0 .0
5 1 .0
1 0 9 .9
1 2 1 .2
1 5 1 .5
5 5 .8
883.2

Population
1 6 7 ,0 5 5
2 4 ,7 2 6
3 2 ,0 8 0
1 1 1 ,9 6 1
9 2 ,8 3 8
7 1 ,4 6 5
9 3 ,9 4 1
1 3 2 ,9 2 7
1 3 3 ,4 6 1
860,454

Acres per 1000
2 .4
0 .0
0 .0
0 .0
0 .0
1 .5
1 .3
1 .1
0 .4
1.0

Neighborhood Park Standards
When considering Neighborhood Parks, Indianapolis
does come close to meeting the benchmark with 1.2.
Considering this figure, we have chosen to include the
acreage for our Mini-Park classification as well. While,
we are close to this standard, we realize that with continued growth, we will have to add to our existing number
of parks. We do this by always looking for opportunities
to place a new park in a neighborhood or add on to an
existing park, especially in the under served townships
such as Perry, Pike and Washington.
Park Supply
Neighborhood & Mini Parks

Community Park Standards
Per previous Comprehensive Plans, Indianapolis established a standard for community parks at 6.0 acres per
1,000 people. This standard is in keeping with national
standards and is a major goal for which to strive. Currently, we have 1.0 acres of community parkland per
1,000 population, a slight increase in the numbers of
acres per 1,000 since the last plan. This increase is due
to increased acres added in Center, Warren, and Wayne

160

Neighborhood
Park Standard
1.3 acres/1000
population

Township
C e nter
D ecatur
F ranklin
Law rence
P erry
P ike
W arren
W ashingto n
W ayne
Totals

Acres Population
286.7
167,055
25.4
24,726
149.4
32,080
17.8
111,961
23.8
92,838
38.7
71,465
180.5
93,941
110.5
132,927
160.4
133,461
993.2
860,454

Acres per 1000
1.7
0.0
4.7
0.2
0.0
0.5
1.9
0.8
1.2
1.2

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
Greenways Mileage Standards
During the 1999 planning process, a greenways standard
did not exist. One of the outcomes of that process established a new standard of .15 miles of greenways per
1,000 people. Here again, the growth of Indianapolis
has outpaced the number of actual miles added to the
greenways. While there are long-term plans for many
more miles and connections within the county, the current state of built greenways falls short of our created
standard. Currently, we have approximately .07 miles
per 1,000 people. We are working with DPW to coordinate bike lane connections with planned and existing
greenway corridors this may help meet the need of those
is Decatur, Franklin, Wayne, Perry, and Warren Townships until greenways can be built.
Park Supply - Greenways
Township
C e nter
D ecatur
F ranklin
Law rence
P erry
P ike
W arren
W ashin g to n
W ayne
Totals

GreenwayMiles
28.9
0.0
0.0
3.0
1.3
9.7
0.6
14.9
0.5
58.9

Population
167,055
24,726
32,080
111,961
92,838
71,465
93,941
132,927
133,461
860,454

Miles per 1000
0.17
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.14
0.01
0.11
0.00
0.07

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

161

Identified Needs
Park Acreage by Township (Total all Parkland)
TOWNSHIP
CENTER
DECATUR
F R A N K LIN
LA W R E N C E
PERRY
P IK E
W ARREN
W A S H IN G T O N
W AYNE
TOTAL

ACRES
% of Total POPULATION % of Total ACRES/ 1000
2,146
16.3%
167,055
19.4%
12.85
657
5.0%
24,726
2.9%
26.58
350
2.7%
32,080
3.7%
10.92
2,507
19.0%
111,961
13.0%
22.39
296
2.2%
92,838
10.8%
3.18
4,936
37.5%
71,465
8.3%
69.07
912
6.9%
93,941
10.9%
9.71
815
6.2%
132,927
15.4%
6.13
553
4.2%
133,461
15.5%
4.14
13,172
100.0%
860,454
100.0%
15.31

* 17.5 average acres per 1000 people in Marion County
NEEDS ANALYSIS CHARTS
The following charts graphically illustrate the present supply and the future need for parks by township. The
future needs are based upon the projected growth of Marion County. Marion County is deficient of at least
1,714 acres of new park land based on 2000 Census numbers.

Regional Park Needs
Center
Decatur

Townships

Franklin
Lawrence

Current Supply
Current Need
Need in 2010
Need in 2020

Perry
Pike
Warren
Washington
Wayne
0

1000

2000

3000

4000

5000

Acres Needed

162

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
Community Park Needs
Center
Decatur
Franklin

Townships

Lawrence

Current Supply
Current Need
Need in 2010
Need in 2020

Perry
Pike
Warren
Washington
Wayne
0

200

400

600

800

1000

1200

Acres Needed

Neighborhood Park Needs
Center
Decatur

Townships

Franklin
Lawrence

Current Supply
Current Need
Need in 2010
Need in 2020

Perry
Pike
Warren
Washington
Wayne
0

50

100

150

200

250

300

350

Acres Needed

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

163

Identified Needs
Greenway Needs
Center
Decatur

Townships

Franklin
Lawrence

Current Supply
Current Need
Need in 2010
Need in 2020

Perry
Pike
Warren
Washington
Wayne
0.0

5.0

10.0

15.0

20.0

25.0

30.0

Miles Needed

MAINTENANCE ANALYSIS
From previous Comprehensive Plan updates, completed in 1999, and 2004, it is apparent that Indy Parks has
an ongoing challenge when it comes to some maintenance issues. Overall, people who responded to our
survey thought we did a good job with maintenance of
our outdoor facilities. Specifically, 13% thought the
level of maintenance was "Excellent" and 55% thought
the level of maintenance was "Good." For our indoor
facilities, the numbers were similar. 9% rated their
level of maintenance "Excellent" while 59% rated it
at "Good."
Although most respondents rated our pools "Excellent" or "Very Good." When asked specifically about
which is the most important issue at our pool facilities, 17% said "Better Maintenance." Another area to
be considered is our golf courses. When asked about
which factor was most important when choosing a golf
course, 14% said the "Condition of the Course." This
is not a remarkably high number, but it ranked third
behind "Location" and "Green Fees."

164

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
BUDGET ANALYSIS
Overall, the table below clearly shows a steady increase in Indy Parks budget over the past eight years.
A closer look reveals that the Operating and Programs
budget increases at this same pace. However, maintenance budgets have been inconsistent, with increases of much lower levels. The portions of capital
budgets funded out of the tax base have increased a
small amount. The significant jumps here are due to
infusions of grant funds. This sheds light on reasons
for Indy Parks' Maintenance struggle to continue to

1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007

Total
$17,700,000
$20,200,000
$22,300,000
$23,700,000
$28,977,715
$27,394,165
$28,055,131
$32,340,633
$34,939,046
$27,394,165
$28,055,131
$32,340,633
$34,939,046

maintain existing and newly added facilities.
Current grant support of various programs and
services including after school, day camp and hub
naturalist programs will eventually end. The Department will need to identify new funding sources, new
partnerships, or other creative solutions to continuing
these programs and services. Sustainability of grant
supported initiatives is always a challenge. However,
the success of these programs reflects the need within
the community for continuation and expansion of
these services.

P ark s M aintenanc e
$7,600,000
$8,500,000
$8,100,000
$7,800,000
$7,256,326
$8,624,554
$9,217,759
$10,303,657
$9,917,007
$8,624,554
$9,217,759
$10,303,657
$9,917,007

O perating/P rogram s C apital Im provem ents
$8,900,000
$1,200,000
$8,400,000
$3,300,000
$10,900,000
$3,300,000
$12,000,000
$3,900,000
$14,217,076
$7,504,313
$13,963,902
$4,805,709
$15,693,243
$3,144,129
$15,104,832
$6,932,144
$17,642,404
$7,379,635
$13,963,902
$4,805,709
$15,693,243
$3,144,129
$15,104,832
$6,932,144
$17,642,404
$7,379,635

DPR Budget per Year

$35,000,000
$30,000,000
$25,000,000
$20,000,000

Capital Improv ements

$15,000,000

Operating/Programs
Parks Maintenanc e

$10,000,000
$5,000,000
$0
1999

2000 2001

2002 2003

2004 2005

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

2006 2007

165

Identified Needs
PUBLIC MEETING ANALYSIS
The planning process allowed for significant amounts of
public input from Indianapolis - Marion County residents.
Identified needs from these meetings have been categorized into six (7) broad categories. These categories are
Public Safety, Maintenance, New Amenities & Uses,
Evaluate & Upgrade Outdated Infrastructure, Increasing
Green Space & Greenways, Sustainable Green Initiatives,
and Ongoing Action Steps from previous plans such as:
Stewardship and Environmental Education, Sustainability, Cultural Legacy, Mission Driven Services, Fitness
and Health and Accessibility.
Needs identified in each category include:
1. Public Safety
(a)
Merge Park rangers with IMPD
(b)
Security Camera on Monon
(c)
Trail Safe Monitor Program
(d)
Additional Police Presence
2. Maintenance
(a) Improve efficiency and turn around time
(b) Update reporting & tracking software
(c) re-align resources to meet needs, mission,
and vision for department
(d) Increase frequency of on-site inspections
3. New Amenities & Uses
(a) Increase number of permanent rest room
facilities
(b) Increase number of Dog Parks
(c) Increase Mountain Bike use where appropriate
(d) Increase Aquatic Facilities
4. Evaluate & Upgrade Outdated Infrastructure
(a) Playgrounds
(b) Family/Nature Centers
(c) Aquatic Facilities
(d) Tennis & Basketball Courts
(e) Greenways
(f) Signage
5. Increasing Green Space & Greenway Corridor Connections
(a) Pursue Acquisition in Developed and Developing Areas and Adjacent to Parks and
Greenways
(b) Plan and Advocate for Remaining Natural
Areas in County
(c) Pursue Abandoned Homes and Vacant
Parcels to become Parks.
(d) Constantly Monitor Land Acquisition
Partnerships

166

(e) Partner with Dept. of Public Works (DPW)
to Connect Greenway with bike Lanes
(f) Identify Potential New Corridors not in
2002 Greenway Master Plan.
(g) Look for Revenue Generating Opportunities for Greenways.
6. Green Initiatives
(a) LEED certifications & accreditations
(b) Reduction of mow areas
(c) Reuse of RCA Dome material
(d) Lowering utility costs
SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
Social and demographic trends identified in Demographics chapter are significant impacts which must
be anticipated when planning for Indy Parks. Among
those trends that have been identified, the following
will more than likely have a significant impact on
Indy Parks operations.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
PUBLIC SURVEY ANALYSIS
The surveys administered are summarized in detail on
page 16. In the most general sense, survey results indicate that Indy Parks is fulfilling its mission well. A great
majority is pleased with many aspects of Indy Parks.
Facility supply, maintenance and locations are generally
good. There are areas for improvement, most notably
in maintenance of both indoor and outdoor facilities,
where 34-37% of respondents could not indicate at least
a ‘good’ impression. On the topic of park supply and
location, 23% of residents felt that the number of parks
was inadequate, and 45% of respondents do not have a
park within a 10-minute walk of their home.
Marketing and Public Relations
Most respondents indicated that newspapers or word
of mouth as the primary method by which they
learned about Indy Parks and Recreation. Further
analysis of our local community and how they gain
information will help to guide the department in how
to best invest our marketing dollars. There were
several questions that pointed to a lack of knowledge
of Indy Parks and its programs as the reason that
residents are not using parks. A careful look at Indy
Parks’ marketing techniques would be warranted.
Outdoor Recreation Activities
Walking, hiking, cycling, taking the dog for a walk,
nature study, and use of playground equipment are
the top five outdoor recreation activities according to
respondents. This is reflective of the many trails and
natural areas in our parks, and the popularity of the
125 playgrounds offered throughout the park system.
Golf, fishing, mountain biking and team sports rank
6-10 in popularity. Again this response can be tied to
the existence of quality park facilities that provide for
these uses.
General analysis of the outdoor recreation activity responses suggests that our community has a
wide variety of needs and interests, and that they are
actively utilizing existing facilities. Public comments
in the community meetings indicated interests of
specific user groups including the need for additional
mountain bike areas, identification of a water skiing
teaching facility, need for more outdoor athletic fields
for soccer, baseball and rugby, additional aquatic
centers and diversity of services at these, the need for

more trails and greenways and overwhelmingly the
need for more park land. The public also expressed
the need for more senior programming, more health
and fitness related programs, and a more developed
volunteer program.
Indoor Recreation Activities
Fitness activities, reading, team sports, music and
visual arts are the top five indoor recreation activities
according to survey respondents. Adult educational
classes, computer labs, drop-in basketball, and drama
or theater classes ranked 6-10 in popularity. While
some of these results were a little surprising, the
results justify our current efforts to include fitness
& weight rooms, library areas, computer labs, and
gymnasiums in our new and renovated facilities. The
results also reflect the high demand for arts programming within the city.
Senior Programs
Survey results indicate a need for active programming, educational activities ranking second. Traditional social activities and day trips were rated lower,
but still desirable.
Accessibility
Only half of the respondents indicated that they had
a park within a five or ten minute walk indicating the
need for additional parks in the county.
Most respondents accessed park sites by automobile.
This is reflected in occasional parking challenges
when parks are reaching capacity use.
The majority of survey responses indicated that parks
were physically accessible. Some comments indicated
a need for physical improvements, better maintenance, and change in hours of operation.
Aquatic Facilities
The rating for Aquatic Facilities was very good overall. Quality of facility, safety, professionalism of staff,
and ease of fee collection had a 90% rating of good or
better, with most responses in the very good category.
Cleanliness, maintenance, quality of programs and
hours of operation were rated 80% at good or better,
again with most responses in the very good range.
Family Centers
The overall rating of Family Centers was positive

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

167

Identified Needs
with most respondents rating services at very good
and over 90% rating services good or better.
Over 90% of survey respondents indicated that the
cleanliness and quality of the facility, quality of
equipment and professionalism of staff were good
or better with the majority rating at very good. The
hours of operation, safety, maintenance, and information available showed 80% at good or better. Program
quality, ease of fee collection, friendliness of staff and
usefulness of brochures were rated with 90% at good
or better.
Golf Courses
85% of respondents rated golf courses good or better in all categories, with the exception of quality of
service, which showed a 72% rating of good or better.
Generally, 20% rated the golf courses at excellent,
40% rated them at very good, 30% at good with the
remainder saying just okay or poor.

Broad Ripple Dog Park

Paul Ruster Dog Park

168

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
PROGRAM SERVICES ANALYSIS

-

Indy Parks and Recreation offers a wide variety of
recreational programs and services that appeal to the
varied interests and age demographics of the community. In comparison to other cities of similar size and
demographics, Indianapolis ranks high in program offerings. Utilizing standard categories and age groups,
the analysis shows Indy Parks and Recreation providing for all program areas, with the exception of some
shortfalls in musical programs.

-

Facility renovations that provide opportunity for program diversity
Non-traditional funding mechanisms used
to hire instructors
Study of regional and national trends in
recreation
Further development of Park Advisory
Councils
Increased interaction with neighborhood
organizations
Increased use of community surveys
versus participant surveys

The deficit of music programming was identified
in previous master plans. The department has made
strides to bring music into our after school and day
camp programs and musical concerts to more park
sites. Future construction and development of the
new Indy Parks' Arts Center will provide additional
resources for all categories of art programming and
stimulate additional outreach programs into our Family Centers across the City.
A closer analysis of recreational program offerings by
site suggests that the diversity of programming is not
reflected at all locations. Staff at the Family Centers
base most of their program offerings on past practice
and performance rather than on community input, national trends or changes in community demographics.
The result is a focus of programming in one or two
areas that have been proven to be successful programs
in the past.
Diversity in programming can be affected by limitations of the facility design, expertise of the staff at
that location, and available resources to hire instructors. Some Family Centers are at capacity with the
programming they are currently providing and would
need to cut back in some existing services in order to
expand and diversify their program offerings. There
is also the existence of other recreation providers who
are offering services in the area that we do not want
to compete with.

SERVICE AREA MAPS
The following series of maps illustrate the service area
for various parks within the Indy Parks system. The
radii for the Service Areas was determined using nationally accepted standards for individual park types.
Dark grey areas are park facilities, operated by either
Indy Parks or another governmental agency. Areas in
white are either within the service area of an existing facility, or are of a non-residential zoning type.
Areas lightly shaded are residentially zoned, and not
within a park facilities service area. These are termed
under served areas and should be a target for park
system expansion through acquisition, construction or
partnerships.

Indy Parks and Recreation will need to continue to
monitor the diversity of program offerings at different
park locations, and seek ways to diversify program
offerings when appropriate. Items that may improve
program diversity include:
Expanding partnerships with other recreation providers in the community
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

1. All Public Parks
2. Neighborhood Parks, Community
Parks & Greenways
3. Multi-Use Gymnasiums
4. Pools & Aquatic Centers
5. Significant Natural Features

169

Identified Needs
Service Area
All Parks in Marion County
Hamilton County

Boone County

Hancock County

Hendricks County

Indianapolis International
Airport

Shelby County

Johnson County

Morgan County

Legend
All Parks in Marion County

0

Service Area - 1 Mile Radius

Under Serviced Areas

4,000

μ
8,000

16,000

24,000

32,000

Feet

February 14, 2008
Produced by: DPR Planning
Data Source: The city of Indianapolis
Geographic Information Systems

170

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

171

Identified Needs

172

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

173

Identified Needs

174

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Identified Needs
with the other 3 started. 31 of these 81 steps have
become part of our everyday business for Indy Parks
and will help us meet our vision and mission.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN STATUS
1992
The 1992 Comprehensive Plan identified a total of 82
issues, and from these issues, 119 Action Steps were
created, with some issues listed under more than one
Action Step. As of 1999, the following results
were observed:

LAND ACQUISITION

14 of the 82 Issues were completed
29 of 82 were still in progress
39 of 82 had not been done
1999
From the 1999 Comprehensive Plan, there were 113
Action Steps generated as a result of the plan. 63% of
the 1999 Plan's actions were completed and documented. 23% of the actions were at least begun, but
are incomplete at this time. The remaining 13% are
either beyond the control of Indy Parks to complete or
have been removed from the Plan. In hindsight, 113
actions were too many for Indy Parks staff to both accomplish effectively and to track accurately.

The map on the following page shows the general location of properties that Indy Parks considers suitable
for parkland. These properties may be mostly wooded
or open, but overall have characteristics suitable for a
park or natural area. Often, due to budget constraints,
Indy Parks does not actively pursue a specific piece of
property without a willing seller. Many of Indy Parks'
recent land acquisitions have been made possible
through gifts or grants. In many cases, a combination
of gifting, grants and capital improvement funds have
to be amassed in order to acquire new parkland. The
following chart shows the amount of property acquired
over the last few years and the method by which it was
acquired.

2004
There were 81 Action Steps generated as a result of
the plan. 65 Action Steps were new with 16 ongoing
from 1999 plan. 78 of the 81 steps were completed
INDY PARKS LAND
ACQUISITION:
1990 TO PRESENT
ACRES ACQUIRED

YEAR

YEAR END TOTAL

1989

9598.0

41.430

1990

9639.4

0.000

1991

9639.4

PURCHASED

DONATED

DEVELOPER
DONATION

39.9

OTHER

0.5

29.660

1992

9669.1

1.950

1993

9671.0

29.4
1.0

129.530

1994

9800.6

129.5

42.340

1995

9842.9

0.000

1996

9842.9

60.830

1997

9903.7

0.150

1998

9903.9

22.0

59.9

17.3

3.1

0.7

0.3

0.2

97.020

1999

10000.9

161.210

2000

10162.1

74.7

60.9

56.8

42.380

2001

10204.5

23.9

2.3

120.000

2002

10324.5

101.0

19.0

145.340

2003

10469.8

86.7

11.000

2004

10480.8

1.0

40.2
25.6

13.2

3.0

12.3

45.4

11.0

1.700

2005

10482.5

1.600

0.100

169.364

2006

10651.9

2 0 .4 5 9

1 0 5 .7 7 8

41.577

1 .5 5 0

72.280

2007

10724.2

60

1 2 .2 8

13.430

2008

10737.6

124.007

250.070

1053.904

TOTALS

1 3 .4 3
501.939

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

261.378

175

Identified Needs

176

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Playgrounds

Indy Parks

2001

Clayton & LaSalle

Park Master Plan

B a r t P e t e r s o n, M a y o r

Soccer

B a s k e t b a ll

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Mayor

Bart Peterson

City-County
Council

John Bainbridge
8
Elwood Black
6
Dr. Philip Borst
25
Rozelle Boyd
11
James Bradford
7
Maggie Brents*
16
Bob Cockrum*
19
Lonnell Conley
AL
Curtis Coonrod
5
Beulah Coughenour
24
William Douglas*
10
William Dowden
4
Ron Gibson
AL
Monroe Gray, Jr.*
9
Karen Celestino Horseman
AL
* Members of Parks and Recreation Committee

Metropolitan Metropolitan Development Commission
Development Mr. Harold Anderson
Mr. Randolph Snyder
Mr. James J. Curtis, Sr.
Mr. Lee Marbles
Mr. Lance Bundles

Harvey Knox
Lance Langsford
Robert Massie*
Lynn McWhirter*
Mary Moriarty Adams
Jackie Nytes
Joanne Sanders
Scott Schneider
Dr. Beurt Servaas
Frank T. Short
David Smith
Bill Soards*
Steve Talley
Jody Tilford*

Mr. Ed Treacy
Mr. Robert Smith
Mr. Gene Hendricks
Ms. Sylvia Trotter

Department of Metropolitan Development
Maury Plambeck, Director
Parks &
Recreation

Board of Parks and Recreation
Joseph Wynns
Diana Wilson Hall
Sheriee Shanklin

Bill Stinson
Alan. C. Wiseman

Department of Parks and Recreation
Joseph Wynns, Director
Project Coordination
Donald A. Colvin Jr., Principal Park Planner
Michael Krosschell, Senior Park Planner
Nadia Semkiu, Senior Park Planner
Catherine Hurst, Park Planning Intern
Leslie Clark, Recreation Supervisor
Ellery Manuel, Neighborhood Parks Manager
Sheryl Richardson, Neighborhood Parks Coordinator
Gwen Marks-Stephenson, Christian Park Manager

17
13
20
18
15
22
AL
3
2
21
23
1
14
12

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Table of Contents
Introduction

1

History

1

Service Area

2

Existing Conditions

3

Demographics

6

Public Participation

8

Master Plan Recommendations

9

Action Plan

12

Conclusion

12

Meeting 1 Minutes
Meeting 2 Minutes
Funding Opportunities
Parks Board Approval
Metropolitan Development Commission Approval

Appendix I
Appendix II
Appendix III
Appendix IV
Appendix V

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Introduction
Located at 401 S. LaSalle Street, west of Christian Park, Clayton and LaSalle Park is
designated as a neighborhood park. According to 1999 Indianapolis- Marion County Park, Recreation and
Open Space Plan, Pathways to the Future, Neighborhood Parks are designed to serve the needs of the
immediate neighbors within a ¼ to ½ mile radius. Neighborhood Parks should be developed for both
active and passive recreation activities, and for a wide variety of age and user groups including children,
adults, senior citizens, and special populations. These parks should be within walking distance of their
primary user group, and provide only enough parking spaces as necessary to match facilities offered.
Neighborhood Parks are the backbone of the city parks system and should serve as the recreational and
social focus of the neighborhood.
Clayton & LaSalle Park is easily accessed by residents from the West. There is a network of
sidewalks in this neighborhood and no barriers to pedestrian travel. This park holds the potential to serve
hundreds of residents with fundamental recreational opportunities.

Location Map

History
Clayton and LaSalle Park, just north of the intersection of Southeastern Avenue and English
Avenue, was established in 1972. The land originally totaling 8.027 acres, was purchased from the Cledor
Corporation for $40,012. In 1981 the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) sold 1.04 acres to
Richard Chastain, and .036 acres to Titan Industries. In 1985, DPR again sold a portion totaling 2.51 acres
to the George F. Cram Company, the neighbor to the north. The three sales brought the park to today’s
total of 3.78 acres.

1

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Service Area
The park’s service area is bounded by railroad tracks on the east, which separate the Clayton
and LaSalle neighborhood from the residents east of the park. Also forming prominent barriers for the
service area are Rural Street, English Avenue and the railroad tracks to the north. The entire service area is
within a ½ mile of the park, with the majority of the residents being within a ¼ mile of the park. This area
falls within the boundaries of both the Southeast Community Organization (SECO) and the Southeast
Neighborhood Organization (SEND).

Service Area

2

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan
Existing Conditions
The park presently totals 3.78 acres and contains two football goals located at the north and
south ends of the field. The shade trees, 5 Norway Maples, 5 Sweet Gum, and 5 Green Ash, located along
LaSalle Street were planted in the fall of 2000 by Keep Indianapolis Beautiful. There is a park identification
sign near the intersection of Clayton & LaSalle Streets. Other than a few trees along the east fence line, the
rest of the park is a mown grassy field.
Along the north border of the park a gravel drive connects LaSalle Street to Titan
Industries. The gravel drive is owned by Titan Industries, and is used by Titan for deliveries and shipping
purposes. Just a few hundred feet south of the park is the Pleasant Run Greenway, linking Clayton &
LaSalle Park to Christian, Garfield and Ellenberger Parks.

Football Goals (looking south)

Gravel Drive Looking West

Keep Indianapolis Beautiful Plantings

3

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Located to the north of the Titan Industries driveway is the George F. Cram Company.
The Cram Company is a prominent manufacturer of globes and maps for distribution throughout the
country. Located to the east is Titan Industries, which extends to the eastern fence line. The fence line
along the eastern boundary is currently grown over with brush. Neighbors complain about this area being a
draw for unwanted activity and that it should be cleared out. To the south of the park is a vacant light
industrial building fronting on English Avenue.

George F. Cram Company

Titan Industries

Eastern Fence Line

4

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

SCALE IN FEET
0

50

100

200

5

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Demographics
For statistical purposes, Clayton and LaSalle Park’s service area was determined to
include one 1990 census tract, 3556.00. Due to the limitations of census tract information,
this area includes radius varying from .35 to .85 miles from the park.
1990 Census Data
Race

Total
White
Black
Amer. Indian
Asian Pac. Is.
Other

3556.00
Center Twp.
2,462
182,140
2,300
105,442
53
74,369
35
610
29
781
45
938

MSA
1,249,822
1,061,822
171,545
2,695
10,001
3,759

3556.00
Center Twp.
100.0%
100.0%
93.4%
57.9%
2.2%
40.8%
1.4%
0.3%
1.2%
0.4%
1.8%
0.5%

MSA
100.0%
84.6%
13.7%
0.2%
0.7%
0.3%

Age

Total
Under Age 5
Age 5-19
Age 20-59
Age 60-84
Age 85 and Above

2,462
251
387
1,336
464
24

182,140
15,697
39,638
95,243
29,192
2,370

1,249,822
96,155
267,450
696,582
175,854
13,781

100.0%
10.2%
15.7%
54.3%
18.8%
1.0%

100.0%
8.6%
21.8%
52.3%
16.0%
1.3%

100.0%
7.7%
21.4%
55.7%
14.1%
1.1%

Gender

Total
Males
Females
Single Males
Single Females

2,462
1,205
1,257
251
205

182,140
86,818
95,322
23,543
21,478

1,249,822
600,385
649,437
123,932
113,237

100.0%
48.9%
51.1%
10.2%
8.3%

100.0%
47.7%
52.3%
12.9%
11.8%

100.0%
48.0%
52.0%
9.9%
9.1%

Marital Status

Total
Married Males
Married Females
Divorced Males
Divorced Females

2,462
486
504
131
143

182,140
28,393
28,596
9,298
11,749

1,249,822
276,069
276,589
41,729
61,118

100.0%
19.7%
20.4%
5.3%
5.8%

100.0%
15.5%
15.7%
5.1%
6.4%

100.0%
22.1%
22.1%
3.4%
4.9%

Housing Units

Total
Occupied
Vacant
Owner Occupied
Renter Occupied

1,099
1,003
96
586
417

81,667
70,266
11,401
34,900
35,366

517,893
480,010
37,883
306,292
173,718

100.0%
91.3%
8.7%
53.3%
37.9%

100.0%
86.0%
13.9%
46.4%
43.3%

100.0%
92.7%
7.3%
59.1%
33.5%

Income

Median Family Income
% Below Poverty Level

$21,831.00 $ 37,590.00
26.31%
5.55%

$22,941.00
25.95%

Households

Persons per HH
Total HH
Single Parents
% of HH with Single Parents

Education Completed

Total
0-11 Years
High School
1-3 Years College
Bachelor's Degree+

$22,941.00
25.95%
2.3
1,072
110
10.26%

2.54
70,341
9,738
14.10%

2.42
480406
39473
5.33%

2,462
750
574
254
17

182,140
48,030
35,036
20,363
9,037

1,249,822
170,905
266,277
192,600
168,451

$21,831.00 $ 37,590.00
26.31%
5.55%

10.26%

14.10%

5.33%

100.0%
30.4%
23.3%
10.3%
0.6%

100.0%
26.4%
19.2%
11.2%
5.0%

100.0%
13.7%
21.3%
15.4%
13.5%

6

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

From the 2000 census, only partial information is available at time of printing. Below are the results for
census tract 3556.00. The 2000 race demographic data provides the following information.

2000 Census Data
Race
Total
White
Black
Hispanic
Am er. Indian
Asian Pac. Is.
Other

3556
Center Twp.
2,325
164,324
1,973
89,912
143
68,133
279
8,462
11
620
9
1,141
147
4,518

MSA
1,607,486
1,319,008
223,974
42,994
3,712
20,290
20,355

3556
Center Twp.
100.00%
100.00%
84.90%
54.70%
6.20%
41.50%
12.00%
5.10%
0.40%
0.30%
0.30%
0.70%
6.30%
2.70%

Age

Total
Under Age 5
Age 5-19
Age 20-59
Age 60-84
Age 85 and Above

2,325
195
442
1,314
341
33

100.00%
8.40%
19.00%
56.50%
14.70%
1.40%

Housing Units

Total
Occupied
Vacant
Owner Occupied
Renter Occupied

1,069
950
119
540
410

100.00%
88.90%
11.10%
56.80%
43.20%

MSA
100.00%
82.10%
13.90%
2.70%
0.20%
1.30%
1.30%

The 1990 census results reveal that this area has a small percentage of college educated
residents and large percentage of residents below the poverty line. It is also a neighborhood with a
larger than average percentage of elderly residents and single parent households. All of these conditions
point to the importance of the Parks Department developing low cost and accessible recreation
opportunities in this neighborhood.
By comparing the 1990 and 2000 Census Race data, it can be determined that the total
population within the Clayton and LaSalle service area has declined. While the total population is
declining the minority population within the service area has increased. This minority increase reveals
that nearly 12% of the service area population is Hispanic, which is a dramatically larger percentage than
the township and Metropolitan Statistical Area totals. Changes such as this emphasize the importance
of remaining connected to the public and of adjusting plan recommendations over time. As
populations change, the recreational needs of a neighborhood will change as well.

7

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Public Participation
For a Master Plan to successfully address a community’s needs, public input is of great
importance. To solicit this input, DPR held two public meetings to gather information and insight from
the neighborhood residents and community leaders. These meetings were held nearby at IPS Elementary
School #21.
At the first meeting, intended as an information gathering meeting, the approximately 25
people in attendance were asked to list both what they like and what they dislike about the park. Another
list was then compiled of improvements the neighbors would like to see within the park. These lists are
printed in their entirety in Appendix I.
Several voiced their desire to keep the open green spaces within the park. Others liked the
location of the park, which is on a neighborhood street. One of the primary concerns for the residents is
the adult soccer league that uses the existing field for games. When the field is in use, the area streets
become dangerous due to the numerous cars and few parking spots. Neighbors are also concerned with
the rowdy crowds that gather for the games and the amount of trash and debris left behind. Neighbors also
suggested adding amenities such as a paved walking trail, a water spray area, a play structure, a picnic
shelter, ½ basketball court and additional tree plantings.
At the second, and final, public meeting, a draft master plan was presented for discussion.
It incorporated many of the suggestions from the prior meeting. From the attendees’ positive response, it
appeared that the plan addressed their concerns. The approximately 18 people in attendance, again
expressed concerns regarding the parking and traffic problems caused by the adult soccer league. This
concern was address by both adding a parking area to the park and shrinking the soccer field to a youth size
field. This will discourage adult league play while, at the same time, encourage youth and pick-up games in
the park. DPR is committed to coordinating another place for the adult league to play its games.
A draft of an action plan or timeline was also presented and discussed. It was explained
that the timeline is fluid and dependant on both DPR priorities and funding for its implementation. The
plan was approved by all in attendance as a guideline for park improvements.

8

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Master Plan Recommendations
From the public meeting input, as well as staff input and experience, these
recommendations were compiled. The following list, in alphabetical order, corresponds to the Master Plan
on page 11.
½ BASKETBALL COURT
A half-court basketball court should be installed in the Northeast corner of the park, near
the parking area. This will service players by locating it close to the parking lot and away from the
playground users. A half-court was specified by neighbors because of its inherent appeal to youth. It has
been DPR’s experience that half courts discourage adult play in small neighborhood parks and allow
children greater opportunity. There is a full basketball court located in Christian Park, less than a mile
away.
PARKING AREA
Both residents and staff agree that parking is a problem for the park. Currently, park users
must park on the shoulder of LaSalle Street. This causes problems for both neighborhood residents and
nearby industries. By including adequate space within the park, this problem will be greatly reduced. Eight
parking spaces, along with one handicap parking space should be located along the gravel drive at the north
end of the park. Because this gravel drive is owned by Titan Industries, DPR should pursue an agreement
with Titan Industries to allow public use of this drive to access the proposed parking lot..
PICNIC SHELTER
A picnic shelter would be a welcome amenity for the park. The shelter should be located
between the playground and the spray pool, to provide easy monitoring of activity in the park. This
location, in the center of the park, would also serve as a focal point for park activities. A picnic shelter
would open the possibility for a Summer Day Camp and other programming activities within the park. The
public consensus was for a hexagonal shelter, which would fit well into the park.
PLAYGROUND
At the first public meeting, there was a call for a play structure that would add recreational
opportunities to the park. The playground should be installed on the west side of the park, next to the
picnic shelter. It should be located far enough away from the street to ensure safety for the users, while
close enough to the shelter and spray area to allow monitoring by adults. In addition to the play structure,
the area should also include stand-alone playground pieces such as swings and a whirl.
PORT-O-LET
A port-o-let should be located near the parking lot. This location would serve the shelter,
spray area and the playground and allow easy access for cleaning and maintenance.

9

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

SPRAY AREA
A spray area would be a welcome amenity to the park. Located near the picnic shelter and
playground, this would be a low cost recreational facility for the neighborhood. A spray area is a simple
facility that allows children and adults to cool off in a spray or mist of water for no cost. These facilities use
fresh water and run only when users activate them, cycling electronically through numerous events.
WALKING TRAIL
This improvement was suggested at the first public meeting and would be a great addition
to the park. A trail, whether gravel or paved, would serve many segments of the population. A trail loop of
.25 miles could be constructed of gravel initially, allowing for the easy addition of asphalt as funding
becomes available. This trail should be 8 feet wide to allow users to pass each other comfortably. This trail
should also have a series of benches installed adjacent to the path for stopping and resting.
YOUTH SOCCER FIELD
Currently the park is being used by an adult soccer league, which is causing parking, litter
and noise problems for the nearby residents. A youth sized soccer field has been delineated in the
southeastern portion of the park and is in need of goals. This youth sized field would be less appealing to
adult players, allowing these children to have a safe place to play. Statewide, there are currently 57,000
youth, ranging in age from 4-19, enrolled in soccer programs throughout the state of Indiana. In 2001 there
were approximately 8,000 soccer participants in DPR activities/leagues/classes, and this number grows
every year. It is the responsibility DPR to coordinate with displaced adult players to locate another field for
their use.

10

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

11

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Action Plan
The action plan is written to serve as a guideline for improvements within the park. It is
not meant as a strict schedule, but should help guide DPR in developing its Capital Improvements
Program.
For each element of this plan to be successful, it must first meet administrative approval
within DPR. It must also prove feasible in terms of site constraints and availability of funds. For this
reason, the proposed timeline and estimated cost of each Action Plan element is subject to change.

#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Action
Parking Area
Picnic Shelter
Playground
Spray Area
Tree Plantings
Youth Soccer Goals
Benches
Half Basketball Court
W alking Trail- Paved
W alking Trail-Gravel

Estimated Cost 1st-3rd Year
$
24,000
$
20,000
$
40,000
$
115,000
$
10,000
$
4,000
$
5,000
$
12,000
$
28,000
$
22,000

3rd-5th
Year

Conclusion
As the master planning process comes to a close, the community begins to look ahead to
implementing specific park improvements spelled out in the plan. The Department of Parks and
Recreation is committed to bringing these plans into reality, and fortunately there is local and national
support available for our parks and open spaces. The opportunities listed in Appendix III are just a few
examples of potential park resources. These are tools which may be used to advance the action plan
toward completion. It is important to remember to coordinate all requests to the groups listed on the
following pages with DPR Planning, Partnership & Grant staff members.
The processes undertaken to develop this master plan involved a variety of people with a
variety of interests and concerns. Their involvement in the process has helped to insure that the
recreational needs of the neighborhood are satisfied.
This master plan should be frequently reviewed and periodically updated, so that DPR can
continue to be responsive to the needs of Clayton and LaSalle Park users.

12

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Meeting Minutes
Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan, 1st Public Meeting
October 5, 2000 7:00 PM
School #21 Gymnasium, 2815 English Avenue
The meeting was called to order at 7:05pm by Mr. Michael Krosschell, Senior Parks Planner. Mr. Krosschell introduced the
DPR staff members in attendance. Other staff in attendance included Principal Planner Don Colvin, Senior Planner Tina
Jones, Public Information Officer Angie Dye, Recreation Supervisor Leslie Clark, Christian Park Manager Gwen MarksStephenson and Christian Park Staff Jason Wehmhoefer. Also introduced was Rachel Cooper, president of SECO,
Southeastern Community Organization.
Mr. Krosschell explained to those in attendance the Master Plan process and how community input would fit
into it. He then set the context for Clayton & LaSalle Park by explaining the differences between Regional, Community and
Neighborhood Parks. Mr. Krosschell reviewed the existing condition of Clayton & LaSalle Park. The park was described as
nearly undeveloped. Features noted included football goalposts, at either end of a mown grass field. Also noted were several
young shade trees, bollards on the west side of the park, and until recently vandalized, two soccer goals. Also noted were
neighboring elements effecting the park, such as a gravel drive on the north side, businesses to the north, east and south, and
LaSalle Street to the west. Mr. Krosschell then opened the discussion for input about what people like about the park, what is
disliked about the park, and what neighbors would like to see improved about the park. The findings and comments were listed
by Mr. Colvin on a large display board, and are summarized below:
Likes
Green, open space
Flat, open play fields
The few trees located there
Location on neighborhood street

Dislikes
Lack of parking
Trash after soccer gam es
Broken glass
Not enough to do in park
Rowdy soccer crowds
Dangerous for kids with traffic on LaSalle

Wishes
Walking trail (paved)
Water spray area
Swings
Spring anim als
Play structure
Shelter (hex)
1/2 Basketball court
Benches (on trail)
Bollards to keep vehicles out
Open playfields
More trees (15)
Lots of activities

Other issues also discussed:
There is a lack of parking for weekly soccer games, causing congestion, double parking and inconvenience to neighbors.
Several soccer players were present and concerned about how the soccer goals and field were vandalized last week.
These soccer players also expressed concern about where they would play if displaced from Clayton & LaSalle Park.
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful spoke about a tree planting volunteer day to be held October 21. It was agreed that DPR would
locate these 15 trees so as to allow flexibility for changes in the Master Plan following the next public meeting.
Mr. Krosschell then closed the meeting, thanking everyone for participating. 25 people were in attendance including
representatives from Indy Parks, Keep Indianapolis Beautiful, SECO and CPAC.

2ND PUBLIC MEETING
May 22, 2001 7:00 PM
School #21 Gymnasium, 2815 English Avenue

Appendix I

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Meeting Minutes
Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan, 2nd Public Meeting
May 22, 2001 7:00 PM
School #21 Gymnasium, 2815 English Avenue
The meeting was called to order at 7:05pm by Mr. Michael Krosschell, Senior Parks Planner. Mr. Krosschell introduced DPR
staff members in attendance including Principal Planner Don Colvin and Planning Intern Katie Hurst. Also introduced was
Cindy Porteus, Executive Director of the Indianapolis Parks Foundation.
Mr. Krosschell reviewed for those in attendance the Master Plan process and how community input fits
into it. He reviewed the input received in the first meeting about the communities wishes for the park. A discussion of
property ownership issues was discussed. Since the first meeting it has become clear that Titan Industries owns the thin strip
of land bordering the park to the north. In order for parking spaces to be designed more efficiently, DPR has had discussions
with the owner about an easement to use this driveway to access the park. Other design elements discussed included a picnic
shelter, playground, walking trail, spray area, ½ basketball court, youth soccer field and benches. An additional suggestion
offered was for a drinking fountain, which will be included in the final draft of the plan. There was agreement among those
in attendance for the design of the park as presented.
A discussion followed about the proposed action plan for the design elements. Many in attendance agreed
that the playground and shelter would be their highest priority, with basketball and the spray area being less important. Mr.
Krosschell reminded those in attendance that this action plan is a suggestion of order of priorities and not a strict schedule.
Some elements may happen sooner than suggested, while others may not be installed as soon as the action plan calls for. All
construction projects hinge upon other budgetary commitments and volunteer or grant opportunities that might arise.
Other issues also discussed
•The traffic problems caused by adult league soccer play. DPR repeated its commitment to find an alternate place for this
league to play before altering the conditions in this park.
From this point the Parks Planning staff will finish writing the Master Plan document, which should be available for the public
by the End of 2001. Copies will be made available to those in attendance through the Southeast Community Organization.
Mr. Krosschell then closed the meeting, thanking everyone for participating. 18 people were in attendance.

Appendix II

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Master Plan Funding Opportunities
Park Advisory Councils - “Friends of” Groups
Park advisory councils represent one opportunity for participation buy community members.
These are volunteer citizens who come together to assist the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR)
with managing a park’s development. The Northwestway Park Advisory Council has assisted DPR in recent
years with input about a disc golf course, a playground and trail improvements. Advisory Councils who wish
to fund raise to advance park improvements can utilize the Park Foundation to administer these funds.
Some Advisory Councils have taken the step of registering as 501(c)(3), non-profit
organizations, whose mission is to benefit the park. These “Friends Of” groups have been instrumental in
raising awareness, funds and the standards for their parks. The Friends of Holliday Park has recently raised
$3.8 million to construct the Holliday Park Nature Center. The Friends of Eagle Creek Park are in the midst
of an ambitious $10 million program to improve Eagle Creek Park.

Granting Opportunities
DPR in 2000 assigned a staff person as Grants Coordinator for the Department. These
duties include identifying, researching, applying for and administering grants for capitol improvements and
programs in Indianapolis Parks. Recent grants have funded the Summer Lunch Program and improvements
to Talbott & 29th Street Park. DPR is happy to assist community members who wish to apply for a grant to
benefit a park. There are a great number of grants available to make parks better places to recreate. If you
have a project you wish to seek a grant for, or know of a grant that could benefit a particular park, call 3277050 and ask for information about grants.

Indianapolis Parks Foundation
The Indianapolis Park Foundation is a charitable organization that was created in 1991 to
increase recreational opportunities in Indianapolis through contributions from our community. The Parks
Foundation has been a vocal advocate for DPR and has provided $4 million in support for parks programs
and projects. The Parks Foundation’s vision is that parks in Indianapolis will be quality spaces for all citizens
to enjoy and that adequate financial resources will be available to support park projects, programs,
maintenance and capital needs. To fulfill this vision, the Indianapolis Parks Foundation is currently initiating
an aggressive fund raising campaign to strengthen its support of DPR. More information can be found at
www.indyparksfoundation.org.

Keep Indianapolis Beautiful
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful (KIB) is a local non-profit organization that works to secure
private donations for the benefit of local organizations, such as DPR. Founded in 1976 and renamed in
1997, KIB has been especially effective in establishing volunteer tree plantings in many Indianapolis Parks.
KIB’s organizational abilities have helped both private companies and neighborhood organizations to hold
successful volunteer planting events, building a sense of ownership and unity with in a community. More
information can be found at www.kibi.org

Appendix III

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Master Plan Funding Opportunities
Build Indiana Funds
The 1989 Lottery Act established the Build Indiana Fund (BIF). These funds are intended
for capital projects such as those proposed in this park master plan. In a given year the fund has distributed
as much as $99 million. Requests can be made though local State Representatives for specific projects. BIF
fund requests must have a governmental sponsor complete the BIF application and receive and distribute the
funds. The Build Indiana Fund has recently funded the lighting of ball fields at Carson and Southwestway
Parks, and the construction of a maintenance building at Garfield Park

Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF)
The LWCF was established by Congress in 1965 to promote quality outdoor recreation
opportunities in the United States. In the 30 years since its creation, LWCF has been responsible for the
acquisition of nearly seven million acres of parkland and open space and the development of more than
37,000 parks and recreation projects. This grant must be applied for by a governmental agency, such as DPR
and it requires a 50% percent funding match. Specific grant award levels vary by year. For more
information visit www.ncrc.nps.gov/PROGRAMS/LWCF/index.html
UPARR Program
The Urban Park and Recreation Recovery (UPARR) program was established in November
1978 by to provide matching grants and technical assistance to economically distressed urban communities.
The purpose of the program is to provide direct Federal assistance to urban localities for rehabilitation of
critically needed recreation facilities. The law also encourages systematic local planning and commitment to
continuing operation and maintenance of recreation programs, sites, and facilities. In 2002, DPR will be
implementing a $500,000 grant for improvements at Willard Park and will be seeking future opportunities for
other grants. More information can be found at www.nps.gov/pub_aff/uparr/grants/index.html.

Appendix III

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Appendix IV

2001 Clayton & LaSalle Park Master Plan

Appendix V



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

2006 Riverwood
Park
Master Plan

City of Indianapolis; Bart Peterson, Mayor

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
Administration:
Mayor Bart Peterson, City of Indianapolis
Ellen White Quigley, Deputy Mayor for Community Affairs
City-County Council and Districts:
Monroe Gray, Jr., President 8
Virginia J. Alig Cain
5
Dr. Philip Borst
23
Rozelle Boyd
AL
Vernon Brown
18
Lonnell Conley
AL
Sherron Franklin
12
Scott Keller
16
Dane Mahern
19
Lynn McWhirter
6
Jackie Nytes
9
Marilyn Pfisterer
14
Isaac Randolph, Jr.
1
Joanne Sanders
AL
Mike Speedy
24

Patrice Abdullah
Paul Bateman
Greg Bowes
James Bradford
Bob Cockrum
N. Susie Day
Ron Gibson
Becky Langsford
Angela Mansfield
Mary Moriarty Adams
William C. Oliver
Lincoln Plowman
Earl Salisbury
Scott Schneider

City-County Council Parks Committee:
Vernon Brown, Chair
N. Susie Day
Monroe Gray Jr.
William C. Oliver

Bob Cockrum
Ron Gibson
Dane Mahern
Earl Salisbury

Metropolitan Development Commission:
Ms. Sylvia Trotter, President
Mr. James Curtis, Secretary
Mr. John M. Bales II
Mr. Brian Murphy

Mr. Ed Treacy, Vice President
Mr. Harold Anderson
Mr. Lee Marble
Mr. Steven Stolen

Board of Parks and Recreation:
Joseph Wynns, Chair
Dr. Jacqueline S. Greenwood
Mr. William H. Stinson

Mr. Richard J. Cockrum
Ms. Emily G. Nichols-Mitchell

Department of Parks and Recreation:
Joseph Wynns, Director
Project Coordination:
Donald A. Colvin Jr., Administrator, Resource Development
Michael Krosschell, Principal Park Planner
Andre Denman, Principal Park Planner
Benjamin Jackson, Senior Park Planner

Page 2

15
11
7
3
22
20
AL
21
2
17
10
25
13
4

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction

4

Service Area

5

Existing Conditions

6

Demographics

10

Public Participation

11

Master Plan Recommendations

17

Action Plan

19

Conclusion

19

Funding Opportunities

Appendix II

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 3

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
INTRODUCTION
Located at 7201 Crittenden Avenue., Riverwood Park is desiginated as a Neighborhood Park and
open space for the Ravenswood neighborhood and surrounding community. The land formerly served
as an Elementary shool in the IPS Washington Township Schools system. Riverwood Park, acquired in
2004, as a land lease from Washington Township Schools, is made up of 12.0 acres, and serves the residents of Indianapolis' White River and Ravenswood neighborhoods.
The 2004 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation and Open Space Plan defines neighborhood
parks by stating that: “Neighborhood Parks remain the basic unit of the park system and serve as
the recreational and social focus of the neighborhood. They should be developed for both active and
passive recreation activities geared specifically for those living in the service area. Accommodating
a wide variety of age and user groups, including children, adults, senior citizens, and special populations, is important. Creating a sense of place by bringing together the unique character of the site
with that of the neighborhood is vital to successful design.”.
HISTORY
Washington Township Schools closed the elementary in 1995. Since then the facility has served as a
storage facility. Flooding of this section of the White River is a nearly annual event and many of the
surrounging parcels ﬁnd themselve holding water. DPW uses the parking lot as a stagging area for ﬂood
relief, providing residents with sandbags, bottled water and other supplies . In 2004 Washington Township Schools agreed to lease the land and building to Indy Parks in a 99 year lease to serve as a recreational facility for the neighborhood.

Northwest Corner of Riverwood Park

Page 4

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
SERVICE AREA
Riverwood Park is one of three parks in the Ravenswood neighborhood. It should be considered as the
complementing active park to the nature area at Stamm Park. These parks serve the residents of the area
bounded by Keystone Avenue, Bailey Creek and White River. There are approximately 800 homes in this
area. Residents south of 71st Street may also be drawn to use Broad Ripple Park, 1/2 mile to the south.
Both pedestrians and those in vehicles can easily access Riverwood Park via parking and vehicular
access from the west on Crittenden Avenue, or by foot on the north side of the park.

Ravenswood Park Demographic Service Area
Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 5

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
EXISTING CONDITONS
The park itself is approximately 12.0 acres and is mostly flat open lawn, however it does slope steeply down at the southeastern corner. Haynes Avenue forms the northern border of the park, while it is
bordered on the west by Crittendon Ave. The southern and eastern borders are shared with the local
Knights of Columbus.

Riverwood park looking south.

Page 6

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
Currently, the old White River School building dominates the western half of the site. The building's
potential for conversion into a community center or gym is very limited. Structurally, the building's
layout would be impractical for recreational use and very awkward for security. The existing school
gym is too small for a full size basketball court, and the two pronged cooridoor halls would make
it difficult for the park manager to have full visibility from a central location. Also, the roof of the
building is failing, asbestos tile and insulation is prolific within the building and the gym is infested
with black mold.

The old School Front

The old Gynasium

The typical condition of the interior of the old school building circa
September 2005

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 7

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
The site overall is fairly flat and the grade is currently high enough above the surrounding area that it
remains above water during annual flooding events that plague this part of the city. For this reason,
DPW uses the parking lot as a staging area for flood relief efforts.
East side of the park along
Crittenden

Existing basketball
courts in disrepair

Page 8

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
Two old playground areas currently exist with out-dated steel and aluminum play equipment. None
of the equipment meets current federal safety codes and no safety surface exists below the equipment.

Existing playground
equipment.

A small concession building exists on the East
side of the park that used to service the ball fields
there. This building is in very poor condition.

The old concession
building.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 9

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
DEMOGRAPHICS
Riverwood Park’s service area is best described by Census Tract 3206.00. This tract includes the area
described on Page 5 as the Park's Service Area. The population of this Tract is compared to Washington
Township and Marion County statistics.
Service
Area

2000 Census Data
Race

Age

Housing Units

Marion
County

Service
Area

Washington
Township

Marion
County

Total

2,889

132,927

860,454

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

One Race

2,851

130,701

846,335

98.68%

98.33%

98.36%

Two Race

38

2,226

14,119

1.32%

1.67%

1.64%

White

2,750

90,627

606,502

95.19%

68.18%

70.49%

Black

40

35,840

207,964

1.38%

26.96%

24.17%

Hispanic

24

4,183

33,290

0.83%

3.15%

3.87%

Ai Alask

11

741

2,181

0.38%

0.56%

0.25%

Asian

25

1,913

12,325

0.87%

1.44%

1.43%

HawaPi

1

45

365

0.03%

0.03%

0.04%

Total
Under Age 5
Age 5-19

2,889
170
494

132,927
7,873
23,429

860,454
63,640
181,069

100.00%
7.17%
17.34%

100.00%
5.92%
17.63%

100.00%
7.40%
21.04%

Age 20-59

1,796

78,519

490,785

59.58%

59.07%

57.04%

Age 60-84

399

20,748

113,447

14.34%

15.61%

13.18%

Age 85 and above

30

2,358

11,513

1.56%

1.77%

1.34%

Total

1,345

65,117

387,183

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

Occupied

1,288

59,606

352,164

95.76%

91.54%

90.96%

57

5,511

35,019

4.24%

8.46%

9.04%

Owner Occupied

1,052

33,721

208,957

81.68%

56.57%

59.34%

Renter Occupied

236

25,885

143,207

18.32%

43.43%

40.66%

Vacant

Gender

Washington
Township

Total

2,889

132,927

860,454

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

Males

1,469

63,138

415,998

50.85%

47.50%

48.35%

Females

1,420

69,789

444,456

49.15%

52.50%

51.65%

Statistics of note are a much higher percentage of white residents, and a conversely lower percentage of
black residents than the county averages. Age distributions within the resident population are similar to
the Township and County ﬁgures. The percentages of Occupied Houses and Owner Occupied housing
units are both much higher than the Township and County statistics.

Page 10

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
The design of the neighborhoods and communities that make up Indianapolis wouldn’t be successful
without good communication. An integral part of the park master planning process are the public meetings held with the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) staﬀ, neighbors, neighborhood organization leaders and special interest groups. Without this critical external communication, Indy Parks would
not be successful in serving park users.
In developing the Riverwood Park Master Plan, Indy Parks conducted two meetings with the general
public. The following are the minutes from these two meetings.

A typical Public meeting. Unfortunately no pictures were taken for the Riverwood park
meetings so this photo will serve as a stand in.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 11

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
Meeting Minutes
Date:

06/28/05 7:00 PM

Project:

White River School Park Master Plan

Location:

Glendale Christian Church, 1788 Haynes Avenue

Reported By:

Michael Krosschell

MEETING MINUTES:
1. Mr. Michael Krosschell, Principal Park Planner, opened the meeting at 6:30 PM. He explained to the
audience the purpose for a Master Plan, the process of writing one and what the Master Plan will contain.
He described White River School Park’s (WRSP) role in the Indy Parks system as a Neighborhood Park
as defined in the 2004 Park, Recreation and Open Space Plan.
2. He described how in 2004 Indy Parks leased the property from the Washington Township School Board,
for a term of 99 years. This lease shifted responsibility for all site features, including the school building
to Indy Parks. He then reviewed the existing conditions at WRSP. The property contains a boarded up
school building, two run-down playgrounds, a basketball court, parking lots and a backstop. It is largely
flat, sloping down in the southeast corner. Only the center of the site is above the 500-year floodplain.
3. Mr. Krosschell review with the audience photographs of the site, and then solicited suggestions from
attendees for features they would like to see included in the park. Below is a table containing all of the
elements listed.
Desirable Outdoor Features
Suggestions for the Building
Renovate/Replace Basketball Court
Remove entire structure to free up space for ballfields
Horseshoe Pits
Remove classroom wings and renovate building core
Replace Playground
Remove entire structure and replace with modern
Recreation Center, including gymnasium
Install Tennis Court
Remove entire structure and replace with small
Family Center
Walking Trails (gravel)
SprayGround
It was noted that it may be less expensive to construct
a new building than to renovate a 51year old building
Trees, shaded areas
It was emphasized that residents of the neighborhood
are most interested in a facility that offers constructive
activities for youth after school hours and on
weekends.
Shaded benches
Naturalized Areas
Versatile Ballfields
Picnic Shelter
It was noted that in times of flooding, the property
is used as staging ground for DPW sandbagging
and Red Cross operations. Displaced residents
also park vehicles on the property, the highest
ground in the neighborhood.
Covered Shelter House, for weddings/photos
Restroom Facilities

Page 1 of 2

Page 12

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
4. Another discussion followed about the Park’s name. Attendees were informed that the decision ultimately
lies with the Board of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Mr. Krosschell solicited suggestions for
consideration, a list of which follow.
Suggested Park Names
White River School Park

School Park

River School Park

Beaver Park

Haynes Park

Ravenswood Park

Liberty Park

Feeney Park

Feeney River Heights Park
Mr. Krosschell shared that Indy Parks staff would further research and study these suggestions and the site.
In several months, a second meeting will be advertised at which time staff will present back to the public one
or two draft plans for the park. At that time, suggestions, comments and questions will be welcomed.
Approximately 40 people attended the meeting, including representatives from Ravenswood Area, Greater
Allisonville Community Council, and other organizations.

Page 2 of 2

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 13

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
Meeting Minutes
Date:

09/29/05 7:00 PM

Project:

White River School Park Master Plan

Location:

Glendale Christian Church, 1788 Haynes Avenue

Reported By:

Ben Jackson

MEETING MINUTES:
1. Mr. Don Colvin, Resource Development Administrator for Indy Parks, opened the meeting at 6:30 PM. He
reviewed the steps taken to get to the current point of this project, and bit about the behind the scenes
developments. He also reviewed for the audience the purpose of the master plan and how it can help in
fund raising and developing the park.
2. Ben Jackson, Senior Park Planner then reviewed the most desired elements from the last meeting,
existing site conditions, and presented the two different plan options developed by planning.
3. The most significant difference in the two plans presented was to keep a portion of the old school building
and renovate it into a recreation center or to demolish it and start over with a brand new center. While
many residents expressed nostalgia for the old school building the overwhelming choice by those in
attendance was to demolish the building and create a new Center. Also of notable concern was to create
and maintain as much of a “nature” feel on the park as possible. Bearing this in mind it became important
to keep noisy and active elements as far away from the wooded area to the South as possible. The
attendants also expressed the desire that if the building would not be removed soon, they would like to
see a shelter, playground, trees and path developed in the meantime. Mr. Colvin said that this would be
possible. The other important element to keep in mind is that DPW be able to continue to carry out flood
relief from the site.
4. Next, discussion moved to possibilities for fund raising and volunteer efforts to move the project along.
Mr. Colvin discussed at length how Indy Parks and the
Parks Foundation have partnered many times with local groups to develop park elements. More
discussion followed about the approval and adoption process the finished master plan would go through.
5. Lastly discussion turned to the name of the park. The overall majority desired that the park be named
Feeney Park after the former principal of the school who had a large and positive impact on the
community and was well liked by virtually everyone.
6. Mr. Colvin then told the public that the preferred plan would be refined to accommodate this meeting’s
comments and then written into a final master plan draft which would be provided to the neighborhood.
There was not a request for a third meeting.
Approximately 25 people attended the meeting, including representatives from Ravenswood Area, Greater
Allisonville Community Council, and other organizations.

Page 1 of 1

Page 14

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
The following is a letter from the Ravenswood/ White River Neighborhood Association to
Indy Parks Formally requestiong the Park be named "Riverwood Park".

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 15

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan

Page 16

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
MASTER PLAN RECOMMENDATIONS
Situated in the midst of a well established residential area, Riverwood Park provides a much needed
recreational opportunity. Passive recreational features such as the picnic shelter and walking paths
allow the public to experience the beauty of this park. Active features like the playground and ball
fields allow for vibrant and energetic activities for kids.
Two concepts have been developed for this park. The two concepts depend on the findings of an
engineering study recommending salvageing or demolishing the existing school building. Concept 1
would retain part of the school and renovate it as a community center. Concept 2 would involve the
demolition of the building and open up the site to develop an all-new community center and allows
a much more flexible layout. At any rate, addressing the school building will probably be more than
5 years in the future and ammenities need to be supplied in the more immediate future. Concept 2
shows the installation of temporary facilities including a parking lot, playground and hexagon shelter. These facilities would later be relocated after the school building was removed. As stated in the
minutes from the second public meeting, Concept number 2 is the community's prefered concept.
The following list of park amenities has been developed from public input and staff experience, recommendations and expertise.
COMMUNITY CENTER
Two concepts exist as to how a community center could be realized at Riverwood Park. As mentioned above, an engineer's analysis of the existing building will determine the feasibility of renovating a portion of the school building into a center. If renovation is cost prohibitive, then the location
of a new facility has been identified.
FENCING AND SIGNAGE
The park currently has no identifying parks signage. The standard signage identifying the park's
name and rules is recommended on the east side by the entrance.
PARK BENCHES
Benches, 5 or 6 at the most, could be located at strategic locations along the walking trail, where there are
notable natural features or pleasant views.
PARKING LOT
For both safety and accessibility reasons, several parking spaces should be provided at the park. These
have been located oﬀ of Crittenden. The existing parking lot could be cut down and salvaged. They
should have a direct connection to the park's interior paths to maintain universal accessibility.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 17

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
PICNIC SHELTER
A small shelter would be a great asset for the park. This would allow all-weather enjoyment of the space,
as well as increased programming opportunities. This structure should be small and on a concrete surface, with only a couple of tables. Another possiblity for shelter would be to add a covered patio of the
south side of the new Community Center.
WALKING PATHS
To allow pedestrians' access into and through the park, a small network of crushed stone paths should be
constructed. With minor regrading of the site, these can be made universally accessible with a pleasant
curvilinear layout, and connecting the playground, sports ﬁelds, spray park, and shelters.
NATURALIZED PLANTINGS
The existing vegetation in Riverwood Park consists entirely of mown lawn and some older trees. The
central area of the park should remain lawn to provide for continued use as Soccer fields. Both Concepts call for more tree plantings and possibly some localized shrub beds and foundation plantings.
Lastly, planting around the park signage would provide an opportunity for perennials and low shrubs.
SPRAY GROUNDS
Spray grounds are a much desired feature in our neighborhood parks. They are less expensive than a
full swimming pool, and provide a very high play value for local children. Spray Grounds don’t contain standing water and only function when users are present to activate the sprays. The spray clocks
run on a ten minute cycle then shut off automatically. No Parks' staff lifeguard is needed to run the
Sprays.
BASKETBALL COURT
This is another feature much desired in most of Indy Parks. A court in this park would likely receive
considerable use by the surrounding neighborhoods. The location of the Basketball court in the proposed concepts keeps a respectful distance from neighbors, shelter, and playground.
SOCCER FIELDS
The site has plenty of flat open space which would be perfect for a soccer field layout. Concept 2
allows for a second youth sized soccer field. Also, a north/ south alignment is preferred due to sun
angles.

Page 18

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
ACTION PLAN
The Action Plan is written to serve as a guideline for improvements within the park. It is not meant as a
strict schedule, but should help guide Indy Parks in developing its Capital Improvements Program. The
timeline portion of the Action Plan is meant to help prioritize a schedule of improvements.
For each element of this plan to be successful, it must ﬁrst meet administrative approval within Indy
Parks. It must also prove feasible in terms of site constraints and availability of funds. For this reason,
the proposed timeline and estimated cost of each action plan element is subject to change.

IMPROVEMENT
Community Center
Signage and Fencing
Playground Equipment
Spray Park
Basketball Court
Soccer Fields
Naturalized Plantings
Parking Lot
Walking Paths
Picnic Shelter
Park Benches

ESTIMATED COST
$
2,000,000
$
6,000
$
30,000
$
60,000
$
15,000
$
3,000
$
5,000
$
12,000
$
8,000
$
16,000
$
3,000

1st-3rd Year

4th-8th Year

CONCLUSION
As the Master Planning process is completed, the community begins to look ahead to implementing
speciﬁc park improvements spelled out in the plan. Indy Parks and Recreation is committed to bringing
these plans into reality, and fortunately there is local and national funding available. The opportunities
listed in the Appendix are just a few examples of resources available for park development. It is important
to remember to coordinate all requests to the groups listed on the following pages with Indy Parks Planning, Partnership & Grant staﬀ members. Any parks question should be addressed to 327-PARK.
The processes undertaken to develop this master plan involved a variety of people with diverse interests
and concerns. Their involvement in the process has helped to insure that the recreational needs of the
neighborhood are satisﬁed.
This master plan should be frequently reviewed and periodically updated, so that Indy Parks can continue
to be responsive to the community surrounding Riverwood Park.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Page 19

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan

APPENDIX
Funding Opportunities

Appendix II

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Appendix I

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
MASTER PLAN FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES

Park Advisory Councils - “Friends Of” groups
Park advisory councils represent one opportunity for participation by community members.
These are volunteer citizens who come together to assist the Department of Parks and Recreation
(DPR) with managing a park’s development. The Northwestway Park Advisory Council has assisted
DPR in recent years with input about a disc golf course, a playground and trail improvements. Advisory Councils who wish to fund raise to advance park improvements can utilize the Indianapolis
Parks Foundation to administer these funds.
Some Advisory Councils have taken the step of registering as 501(c)(3), non-profit organizations, whose mission is to benefit the park. These “Friends Of” groups have been instrumental in
raising awareness, funds and the standards for their parks. The Friends of Holliday Park has recently
raised $3.8 million to construct the Holliday Park Nature Center. The Eagle Creek Park Foundation is in the midst of an ambitious $10 million program to improve Eagle Creek Park. The Friends
of Garfield Park have raised more than $1 million to fund a maintenance endowment for the sunken
gardens.

Granting Opportunities
DPR in 2000 assigned a staff person as Grants Coordinator for the Department. These duties
include identifying, researching, applying for and administering grants for capitol improvements and
programs in Indianapolis Parks. Recent grants have funded the Summer Lunch Program and improvements to Talbott & 29th Street Park. DPR is happy to assist community members who wish to
apply for a grant to benefit a park. There are a great number of grants available to make parks better
places to recreate. If you have a project you wish to seek a grant for, or know of a grant that could
benefit a particular park, call 327-7050 and ask for information about grants.

Indianapolis Parks Foundation
The Indianapolis Park Foundation is a charitable organization that was created in 1991 to
increase recreational opportunities in Indianapolis through contributions from our community. The
Parks Foundation has been a vocal advocate for DPR and has provided more than $4 million in capital improvements, and nearly $1 million for parks programs. The Parks Foundation’s vision is that
parks in Indianapolis will be quality spaces for all citizens to enjoy and that adequate financial resources will be available to support park projects, programs, maintenance and capital needs. To fulfill
this vision, the Indianapolis Parks Foundation is currently initiating an aggressive fund raising campaign to strengthen its support of DPR. More information can be found at www.indyparksfoundation.
org.

Keep Indianapolis Beautiful
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful (KIB) is a local non-profit organization that works to secure private donations for the benefit of local organizations, such as DPR. Founded in 1976 and renamed in
1997, KIB has been especially effective in establishing volunteer tree plantings in many Indianapolis
Parks. KIB’s organizational abilities have helped both private companies and neighborhood organizations to hold successful volunteer planting events, building a sense of ownership and unity with in a
community. More information can be found at www.kibi.org

Appendix II

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
MASTER PLAN FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES

Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF)
The LWCF was established by Congress in 1965 to promote quality outdoor recreation opportunities in the United States. In the 30 years since its creation, LWCF has been responsible for the
acquisition of nearly seven million acres of parkland and open space and the development of more
than 37,000 parks and recreation projects. This grant must be applied for by a governmental agency,
such as DPR and it requires a 50% percent funding match. Specific grant award levels vary by year.
For more information visit www.ncrc.nps.gov/PROGRAMS/LWCF/index.html

UPARR Program
The Urban Park and Recreation Recovery (UPARR) program was established in November
1978 by to provide matching grants and technical assistance to economically distressed urban communities. The purpose of the program is to provide direct Federal assistance to urban localities for
rehabilitation of critically needed recreation facilities. The law also encourages systematic local
planning and commitment to continuing operation and maintenance of recreation programs, sites, and
facilities. DPR has recently completed improvements at Willard Park, assisted in part by a $500,000
UPARR grant, and is now implementing a grant for Martin Luther King Park pool renovations. More
information can be found at www.nps.gov/pub_aff/uparr/grants/index.html.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Appendix III

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
The following is a letter from the HCO architects stating their analysis of the existing school
building on the Riverwood Park site.

Place holder for Letter

Appendix IV

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

2006 Riverwood Park Master Plan
The following is the Concept 1 plan presented to at the second public meeting. While concept two
wasthe public's prefered plan. This alternate was kept as a back-up plan pending the cfeasibility
analysis of a third party regarding renovating versus demolishing the school building.

Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation: Resource Development Division

Appendix V



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Introduction
A STARTING PLACE

PLAN PURPOSE

The Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation is the primary parks agency for the more than
860,000 residents of Marion County, Indiana. The
Department's roots are within the pre-1969 boundaries of the City of Indianapolis. Since that time, the
Department's jurisdiction has grown to the boundaries of the county. This encompasses the entire range
of possible parks and communities. These include
intensely urban plazas, small parks in declining urban
neighborhoods, parks in middle-class suburban subdivisions and larger natural parks on the rural fringes of
the county.

This Plan documents the current status of Marion
County Parks and Open Spaces. It also develops a
blueprint for the creation and preservation of open
spaces, recreation facilities and parks that:
• Reflects community values, goals and priorities.
• Identifies creative alternative methods to achieve
these goals.
• Integrates easily into:
- the formation of City policies,
- the selection, implementation and
coordination of City projects; and
- the development of complementary and
cooperative efforts by citizens and
the City.
• Takes into account the role of recreation spaces,
activities, programs, and facilities in the social
and economic development of the city.
• Creates an immediate and progressive strategy to
meet recreation needs for at least five years.
• Creates a unified, community-based vision for
recreation activities, services and providers.
• Endeavors to create a stronger sense of community by developing partnerships between
stakeholders to fulfill the recreation needs of the
county.

Because of the steady outward growth of Marion
County's population, Indy Parks is challenged to
balance the needs of the historic city parks with the
needs of populations in the other eight townships.
Half of this task is in operating, maintaining and
adding to the capacity of established city parks. The
counterpart to this is Indy Parks' challenge to offer
services and programs in the outlying areas of the
county. There are noticeably fewer parks and built
facilities in these areas, requiring Indy Parks' staff to
employ creative strategies and partnerships to ensure delivery of park and recreation services to all of
Marion County's residents.

COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
The 2009 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation and Open Space Plan describes the present
state and future vision for recreation opportunities in
Marion County, Indiana. This plan also summarizes
the progress and accomplishments of the previous
comprehensive plan, dated 2004. 96% of the 2004
Plan's actions were completed and documented. 4%
of the actions were at least begun, and should be completed in the 2009 Plan.
The existing county-wide park and recreation facilities, natural and cultural features, demographics and
universal accessibility conditions are identified to provide a starting point for future planning. Through a
process of citizen participation and survey, Indy Parks
has also identified and prioritized the recreational
needs of the community, enabling them to identify
trends, directions and opportunities for the park
system. The changing demographics of the city and
county necessitate timely reevaluations of the present
and future recreational needs of the county.

A comprehensive plan is a valuable tool for Indy
Parks to identify the direction for present and future
recreation activities within Marion County. The plan
will establish a framework for sensible development
of park and recreation services. Having a comprehensive plan is not only beneficial for Park Board
members and recreation planners, but it also gives the
community a clear sense of Indy Parks’ direction.
Indy Parks partners with its sister agency, the Department of Metropolitan Development in its writing of
the County's Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Park
staff participate in both internal and public meetings
throughout the drafting of the plan. The recommendations regarding treatment of greenways and land
acquisition in this plan mirror those in the Land Use
Plan.
A comprehensive plan for Indy Parks provides the
foundation that will guide the Indianapolis Department of Parks and Recreation as well as citizen part-

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

1

Introduction
ners. It recognizes the role of Indy Parks as a partner
in fulfilling the recreation needs of the citizens of the
county. As a part of delivering services, Indy Parks
partners with a great many other provider organizations. These include faith-based groups, schools,
private recreation centers, YMCAs, and other social
service organizations.

THE RECREATION EXPERIENCE

PLAN COMPONENTS

Leisure time is that discretionary time that is not
consumed by work, school, eating or sleeping. Indy
Parks joins a wide array of leisure service providers such as local professional sports teams, zoos and
museums, the Arts, libraries, church groups, school
groups, neighborhood youth sports organizations and
others, in an attempt to satisfy the publics’ leisure
needs.

The components of Indy Parks’ Comprehensive
Plan will include:
• Public Participation
• Information gathering
- park system organization
- inventory of park facilities
- inventory of natural resources
- inventory of cultural resources
- national recreation standards
- future needs and trends
• Universal Access Evaluation
• Needs analysis
• Priorities & Action Schedule
• Evaluation of the Plan

The primary focus of Indy Parks is to improve the
quality of life by meeting the leisure needs of a
diverse urban and suburban population. An understanding of “recreation” is needed because of the
diverse nature of leisure and recreation.

Leisure needs can be classified into two general categories: Passive and Active.
Passive leisure activities include a drive through a
park, a walk along a shoreline, watching children
participate in a sport or activity, observing sports activities, visiting a historic city, or reading a book on a
park bench. The pleasure is enhanced when the park
is well maintained, safe from crime and accessible to
the user. Tall green trees, running streams and other
greenspace provide a natural and relaxing break from
the built environment. It is a place where wildlife can
be viewed and appreciated. Passive leisure activities
in the outdoors are refreshing and enjoyable.
Active leisure activities include participating in a
sports league, attending a day camp, going for a jog,
playing basketball, mountain biking or learning to
swim at a local pool. These are opportunities to develop a healthy lifestyle, enhance fitness and socialize
with others. Offering meaningful, high quality, Active
leisure activities can be a deterrent to crime and extend the life of Marion County residents.
Public, private, and commercial providers of recreation services exist as part of the leisure and entertainment industry; the largest industry in the United
States.

2

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Introduction
BENEFITS OF PARKS AND RECREATION
The benefits of parks and recreation to society, the
community, and local government are significant.
While some view parks and recreation as trivial or
unnecessary, research conducted since the 1930s
proves otherwise. In fact, research has shown the
small investments in park and recreation areas,
programs, services and facilities are invaluable to a
community. The impacts: economic, environmental,
community, health and wellness, and others; help to
create a healthy, vibrant place in which humans live.
The entire community benefits when investments
in local parks and recreation are made. Parks and
recreation also have a positive effect on corporate relocation, reduced crime, and community spirit. Some
of the benefits of parks and recreation to the City of
Indianapolis follow.
Health & Fitness Benefits
Significant benefits are attributable to provision of
local parks and recreation. Encouraging physical
activity and quiet activities has significant positive
impacts on individuals and the community. With
minor publicly funded investment, local government
officials can positively affect the health and fitness of
the community in the following ways:

•

Environmental Benefits
The preservation of the natural resources, most often
found in local parks, results in environmental benefits
to a community. Yet the far-reaching benefits to the
environment of this small public investment are often
underestimated. Preservation of an area’s topography,
wooded areas and historically important areas can
often create the fabric of a high quality life for the
community. Benefits of parks and recreation to a local community include the following environmental
positives:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•

Physical activity appears to relieve symptoms of
depression and anxiety and improve mood.
The physically fit person is less prone to injury
and is less likely to experience depression.
Positive and enjoyable recreation experiences can
decrease stress and psychological tensions.
Each additional mile walked or run by a sedentary
person would give him or her an extra twenty-one
(21) minutes of life.
Outdoor adventure activities for people with limited physical ability gives participants feelings of
success and improved feelings of confidence.
Physically active older people typically benefit
from lower blood pressure, increased muscle
strength, joint flexibility and lower total cholesterol levels than do less active people.
According to the Gallup Poll for American
Health, Americans who exercised regularly were
two and one-half (2 1/2) times more likely to
report that they were happy than Americans who
did not exercise at all.

A water aerobics program two (2) times a week
for sixteen (16) weeks significantly reduced diastolic blood pressure, body fat, and body weight
in elder community residents. (The Benefits of
Parks and Recreation – a Catalogue, 1992)

•

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Greenways limit and control air pollution.
Green space is essential for recharging our aquifers.
Greenways prevent pollution of surface and ground
waters.
Greenways maintain wildlife habitats and natural
systems.
Trees and vegetation help reduce noise and dust and
absorb pollutants.
One (1) shade tree may save the energy cost equivalent of four (4) air conditioners operating all day.
According to a 1995 issue of Money magazine,
Americans rank clean air and clean water number
one (1) and number two (2) when choosing qualities
for “the Best Place To Live.”
Open space enhances our quality of life including
recreation, education, aesthetic and spiritual enrichment.

3

Introduction
Economic Benefits

employment opportunities, and, of course, leisure
offerings. Indy Parks adds a sense of community
to Indianapolis by providing many of the recreation
and leisure resources that are so highly valued by the
community. Benefits in this area include:

The economic benefits of parks, recreation and open
space include those benefits associated with promotion of tourism, increased property values, attraction
of business and industry, and reinvestment in property. Specifically research has found the following
benefits to providing local parks and recreation:
•

•

•

•

•

•

A 2003 study by IUPUI's Center for Urban
Policy and the Environment found that homes in
an Indianapolis greenway corridor benefit from
$3,731 in added value. Another model found that
the value added to homes near the Monon Trail is
$13,059.
In the neighborhood of Cox Arboretum, in Dayton, Ohio, the proximity of the park and arboretum accounted for an estimated five percent (5%)
of the average residential selling price of homes.
Increases in property values result in increased
tax values. Park and open space investments
often pay for themselves in a short period of time,
due in part to increased property tax revenues
from higher values of nearby property.
A study of the impacts of greenbelts on neighborhood property values in Boulder, Colorado,
revealed the aggregate property value for one (1)
neighborhood was approximately $5.4 million
greater than if there had been no greenbelt. This
resulted in $500,000 additional potential property
tax revenue annually.
Quality of life is increasingly cited as a major
factor in corporate location decisions. In 1996,
Ernst & Young’s Kenneth Leventhal noted recreation opportunities as the second most important
quality of life location criteria. Labor factors,
business costs and geographic factors were other
considerations.

Community Benefits
Parks and recreation impact the community. It has
positive effects on crime reduction, brings people together, and creates a sense of identity and ownership
in the community. It puts human beings in contact
with each other, bringing out the need for social
interaction and the benefits of mutual sharing. As
communities plan for the future it has become clear
that the quality of life is defined by many aspects of
community life. Included in the aspects of quality of
life are issues such as safety, education, affordability,

4

•
•
•
•

•

•

•

Cincinnati, Ohio initiated the Late Evening
Recreation Programs in 1993. During the initial
thirteen week period, the number of juvenile
criminal incidents dropped 24% from 491 to 373.
Cost per person to provide this recreation service
was $4.56. (Beyond Fun and Games, 1994)
Individuals learn new skills and develop new
interests in parks and recreation.
The opportunity to develop partnerships, combine
resources, and meet social needs is provided.
Civic pride in building a stronger community is
created.
Providing opportunities for families to connect
and facilitating the ability to expand intergenerational programs.
Youth show improved academic performance and
adults and businesses realize increased productivity when a sense of community is created at
local places and activities.
Participants of all ages live healthier, longer lives,
have reduced stress levels, and gain increased
self-esteem and confidence when interacting in
recreation activities.
According to the February 1997 issue of Urban
Land, in surveys conducted by American Lives,
Inc. and Inter-Communication, Inc., the following
stages in consumer preferences in community
features and designs were noted. Twenty-one (21)
out of thirty-nine (39) items listed related to park
and recreation items.

It has become clear to society at large that the benefit
of providing adequate park, recreation and open space
areas is significant. With over a 100 year history in
the American City, parks have become an integral
part of our society and community expectations.
PLANNING PROCESS
The development of the comprehensive park, recreation, and open space plan was divided into a threepart process: information gathering, draft plan development and final plan preparation.
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan
Fire

Weights & Measures

Animal Care & Control

Planning

Neighborhood Services

Historic Preservation

Compliance

Equal Opportunity

Indianapolis Fleet Services

Operations

Engineering

Police

Emergency Management
Planning

Director's Office

Community Development

Policy and Planning

Human Resources

Department of Public
Safety

Administrative Services

Internal Audit

Administrative Services

Department of Public
Works

Corporation Counsel

Department of
Metropolitan
Development

Mayor

Electorate

Organization Chart

Department of
Administration

City Controller

City of Indianapolis

Clerk of the Council

Park Rangers

Environmental &
Interpretive Services

Resource Development

Park Maintenance

Greenways

Golf Services

Community Recreation

Sports & Revenue
Facilities

Administration

Department of Parks &
Recreation

City County
Council

Cable Communications
Agency

2004 Annual Budget

Introduction

5

Introduction
By utilizing existing staff resources, and previous
plans, Indy Parks inventoried and analyzed the park
and recreation needs of the community.

phase of comprehensive plan development. Subsequently, the adopted draft was transmitted to INDNR
for their approval, and then printed. A final level of
approval was obtained from the Metropolitan Development Commission, to attach the plan as an appendix to the County's Land Use Plan.

The planning process also utilized previous Indy
Parks planning efforts including the 1999 Comprehensive Parks, Recreation and Open Space Plan, the
2002 Indianapolis Greenways Plan, Capital Improvement Plans and Strategic Planning done by City's
Directors and Park's Senior management. These
plans served as a foundation of already existing data
and plans that needed review and ‘winnowing,’ not
redevelopment.

CURRENT DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND
RECREATION ORGANIZATION

Information Gathering
In this phase, the project team actively sought information and background on issues and identified needs
facing the Indianapolis Park and Recreation system.
Included in this phase were data collection from the
public via questionnaire surveys, meetings, and electronic communications. A review of existing plans,
discussions with current staff as well as investigations
of capital improvement plans were completed in order
to define a planning area, identify overall park and
recreation needs, and evaluate existing service quality
and overall community opinion for Indy Parks. An
early draft of the Plan was transmitted to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources for technical review
on January 15, 2009. This first draft of the plan was
in reality an outline and status report of Indy Parks
progress to date.

A five-member board, administered by a director,
oversees department policies, reviews its annual
budget, and approves all contracts. The Park Board
consists of the Director of the Department, who is
appointed by the Mayor, two members appointed by
the Mayor, and two members appointed by the CityCounty Council. The four members serve a renewable
one-year term. The Director of the Department serves
as the chair of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
As of March, 2009 the Board members and their term
expirations are:

Draft Plan Development
The second phase of the planning process was the
further development of the draft comprehensive plan.
This draft was reviewed for technical accuracy by
staff and City officials prior to its release to the public. After modification, a public comment draft plan
was released via Indy Parks' website and recreation
centers and to public officials for review. Dates and
times for subsequent public meetings were coordinated with release of the draft comprehensive park,
recreation and open space plan.
Final Plan Preparation
Briefings to various city Boards and officials, and
finally, the adoption of the Plan the Indianapolis Parks
and Recreation Board were completed for this final

6

Today, the Department of Parks and Recreation
oversees recreational facilities and provides leisure
time activities throughout Marion County, Indiana.
The Department enforces all city ordinances and
state laws pertaining to parks and recreational facilities. It has the power to levy general property taxes
to acquire, operate and maintain park and recreation
facilities, and it also has the power to issue general
obligation bonds for the same purposes. Its budget is
reviewed and approved by the Mayor and the CityCounty Council.

Stuart Lowry, Chair, Director of the Department of
Parks and Recreation

Dr. Jacqueline S. Greenwood
Ms. Diana Wilson Hall
Mr. Joseph E. Mayes
Mr. Michael R. Tywman

Term Expires
12-31-09
12-31-09
12-31-09
12-31-09

The board may be contacted at:
200 E. Washington #2301
Indianapolis, IN 46204
(317) 327-7050
(Addresses/phone numbers are available upon request)

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Introduction
Department of Parks and Recreation Budget

Park Board Goals

The Department of Parks and Recreation budget has
fluctuated significantly over the past 5 years, however, grant monies contributed to the department’s
success in revitalizing neighborhood parks, extending greenways trails, and offering programs to the
community. Detailed budget figured are included
in the Identified Needs section. Additional land
parcels were received through land donations and
funded acquisitions. The parks system received
other parcels for conversion to parks or as leverage
for the acquisition of more land elsewhere for largersize parks. Based on annual park user surveys and
facility records, in 2008, the park system provided
program services to 1,965,021 citizens; had a general
park attendance over 5 million, and Greenways use
was at 2,2 million users. The system’s capacity met
a significant service demand and will continue to
be challenged as more opportunities for relaxation,
fitness, and recreation occur in relation to disposable
time available.

The goals of the Parks Board, as described in Section 241-204 of the establishing ordinance are as
follows:

The restructuring of the state’s property tax, competition for grant dollars, and slowing economy reduced
funding to the parks system enabled the Department
to better use existing capacity and add capacity. The
momentum gained during the recent period will, of
course, need to be maintained in future periods to accomplish extensive renovation of aging facilities and
continue a high rate of programming. Additionally,
as community development continues, a greater need
may become evident for more facilities tailored to local needs. The parks system will pursue its success in
acquiring grants or corporate partners for these types
of needs.

(1) To review all budgets prepared by the department
and recommend to the city-county council any
revisions the board feels desirable;
(2) To hold any hearings to be held following public notice and make findings and determinations
required by applicable law;
(3) To approve the award and amendment of contracts let by the department for the purchase
or lease of capital equipment or other property
where the contract is required to be bid under IC
5-22;
(4) To approve the award and amendment of public construction contracts let by the department
which are required to be bid under IC 36-1-12;
(5) To approve the acquisition of and leases for real
estate by the department;
(6) To approve the employment of persons engaged
by the department by contract to render professional or consulting services;
(7) To establish a cumulative building and sinking
fund pursuant to IC 36-10-4-36;
(8) To approve the disposal of property by the department as specified in IC 36-1-11, excluding leases
of real property, pursuant to IC 36-1-11, for the
siting of cellular, digital personal communications systems, or other wireless communications
systems towers and related equipment; and
(9) In addition, the board shall have the powers
granted to the Board of Parks and Recreation of a
consolidated city by IC 36-10-4, by ordinance or
by the mayor.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

7

Introduction

8

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Introduction
Department Organization
The nine divisions of the Department of Parks and
Recreation are briefly described below.
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION
Administration provides departmental level leadership, management, and oversight of the business
operating elements. The Administration Division
includes a variety of functions essential to the organization including finance, marketing and public relations, public policy, grants, alliances and partnerships,
and a variety of other special projects. This division
facilitates and coordinates the implementation of
cross-divisional activities.
COMMUNITY RECREATION DIVISION
The Community Recreation Division provides recreational services and opportunities to Marion County
residents. Community Recreation’s core areas
include community centers, neighborhood parks, arts
services, day camps, and after-school, therapeutic,
and senior programs.
SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITIES
DIVISION
This division provides both sports programs and
special facilities combined with educational opportunities for volunteers, coaches and staff. Some of the
facilities include indoor and outdoor aquatic centers,
sports courts and fields, ice rinks, velodrome, skate
park, and BMX track.

safety programs, develops community policing strategies, and is responsible for enforcement of city ordinances, parks policies and procedures. Rangers have
merged with Indianapolis Metro Police Department
within Public Safety.
PARK MAINTENANCE DIVISION
The Park Maintenance Division maintains Indy Parks’
facilities and parks. Operating elements include
beautification, forestry (includes city’s street trees),
grounds and facility maintenance, land improvement,
natural resources, and land stewardship.
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
Resource Development steers the direction of the
Department through resource planning, capital asset
development and sustainable strategic tactics. In
addition to the planning tasks, this division is also
responsible for land acquisition and real estate management.
GREENWAYS DIVISION
The Greenways Division manages, improves and
maintains the 58.9 mile greenways system within
Marion County to provide recreational and fitness
opportunities; promote open space conservation; link
neighborhoods together, with other parks and other
community assets; and provide environmental education for the public concerning the greenways system.

GOLF DIVISION
The Golf Division provides golf opportunities for
people of all ages and physical ability throughout
the Indianapolis community. This division manages
municipal courses as well as plans and oversees capital improvements at each course. It manages course
operating contracts, service contracts, and course
management contracts.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SERVICES DIVISION
The Environmental and Interpretive Services Division
provides environmental education and interpretive
programs to the community through nature centers
and the Hub Naturalist program.
PARK RANGERS DIVISION
The Park Rangers Division implements education
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

9

Introduction
Department Goals
The goals of the department are drawn from the
director's strategic planning with the mayor and from
park's senior manager retreats in 2008-2009. Future
Indy Parks Strategic Plans will focus on these recommended strategic goals:
1. Experiences - Provide and communicate recreation
and learning opportunities that create an environment
of health and fitness, environmental responsibility,
creativity, diversity, and fun.
2. Infrastructure - Provide a park system that is safe,
well maintained, and accessible. Provide state-of-theart facilities by assessing, prioritizing and upgrading
existing capital assets.
3. Financial-Establish fiscal responsibility and transparency in managing the budget.
4. People-Create an environment that inspires,
empowers, recognizes and values an engaged work
force.

10

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:44 AM

Page 1

annual report 2003
l i v e
l e a r n
e x p l o r e

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:44 AM

Page 2

annual report

indy parks and recreation

Mission
Mayor
Bart Peterson
Director
Joseph Wynns
Board of Parks and
Recreation
Joseph Wynns, Chair
Diana Wilson Hall
Jacqueline S. Greenwood
William H. Stinson
Dale J. Thornberry
City-County Council Parks
and Recreation Committee
Bob Cockrum, Chair
Maggie Brents
William Douglas
Sean Frick
Monroe Gray, Jr.
Harvey Knox
Robert Massie
Bill Soards
Jody Tilford

Indy Parks and Recreation shall provide clear leadership and
well-defined direction for enhancing the quality of life for
Indianapolis and Marion County residents by providing park
and recreation resources and services that:
• Provide and/or facilitate quality recreation and
leisure opportunities.
• Encourage and support natural and cultural resource
stewardship and environmental education.
• Include safe, clean and well-maintained park facilities
for the community’s fun and enjoyment.
• Promote and facilitate mutually beneficial countywide
partnerships.

Indy Parks and Recreation
City-County Building, Room 2301
200 East Washington Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204

2003

Greetings!
Our city’s parks enhance the quality of life for each neighborhood and each resident
of Indianapolis. With park facilities reaching all corners of the community, Indy Parks
and Recreation brings the best of city government to its people on a daily basis.
Once known only as the amateur sports capital of the world, Indianapolis has
evolved into a world-class city with a variety of cultural, historical and sporting
activities. It is largely due to Indy Parks that Indianapolis can consistently offer a
diverse selection of arts and recreational programming to all Marion County residents.
We have all seen that parks can bring neighborhoods together, and strengthen entire
communities and cities. Strong park systems also play an essential role in business and
economic development in both the municipal and state level government agencies.
Recently, the dedication and professionalism of the department was recognized
nationally. In the spring of 2003, Indy Parks earned national accreditation from
the Commission for Accreditation of Park and Recreation Agencies (CAPRA).
This prestigious honor made us one of only 44 accredited municipal park agencies
in the country.
Over the past year, we have continued to grow in our effort to provide diverse
recreational opportunities and services for our community by continuing to acquire
new parkland, developing capital projects, extending our greenways system, and
offering new and expanded programming.
We encourage you to get out and enjoy all that Indy Parks has to offer.
From jazz concerts to tennis, Indy Parks has it all.

(317) 327-PARK
www.indyparks.org

Bart Peterson, Mayor

Joseph Wynns, Director

City of Indianapolis

Indy Parks and Recreation

building a world-class city
neighborhood by neighborhood
— Mayor Bart Peterson

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:44 AM

Page 4

indy parks and recreation

Department Successes

annual report

2003

Department Awards

• Achieved agency accreditation through the National Recreation and Park
Association (NRPA) in February 2003.

• America in Bloom National Champion, Community Involvement All Population Categories

• Provided services and facilities to 7,184,464 park visitors through various
programs, parks, facilities, and greenways.

• America in Bloom National Champion, Population Category
500,001–1,000,000

• Received a value of $833,769 through 224 partnerships, sponsorships,
and donations.

• American Trails Web Site Contest: Indygreenways.org

• Received $2,166,471 in grant funding.

• Certificate of Appreciation-Support & Dedication to the Broad Ripple
Village Association

• Utilized over 50,000 volunteer hours of service at a value of $830,325.

• Honorable Mention from The League of American Bicyclists

• Assisted 36,066 customers through Customer Service.

• Indiana Urban Forestry Council Project of the Year for Tornado Turnaround
Tree Planting Project

• Completed the Indy Parks web site, www.indyparks.org.
• Obtained National Register of Historic Places Status for Indianapolis
Historic Park and Boulevard System (known as the George Kessler plan)
consisting of 3,474 acres.

• Indianapolis Monthly Best Walking Trail: White River Wapahani
• International Society of Arboriculture Gold Leaf Award for Outstanding
Arbor Day activities
• National Association for Interpretation Great Lakes Region Outstanding
Interpretive Program Environmental EdVentures
• National Geographic Kodak Award Outstanding Achievement
• National Recreation and Park Association Great Lakes Region Partnership
Award for Indy in Motion—A Walk in the Park
• Pathways for People: Opportunities for Progress
• The League of American Bicyclists: Honorable Mention
• Travelocity Local Secrets, Big Finds: Monon Trail 1 of 10 Indiana Winners

fun and enjoyment

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:44 AM

Page 6

indy parks and recreation

Department Facilities
• 166 Park Properties
• 23 Aquatic Facilities including nine Outdoor Aquatic Centers, seven
Outdoor Traditional Pools, two Indoor Aquatic Centers, four Indoor
Traditional Pools, and one Beach
• 19 Community Centers
• 13 Golf Courses
• 16 Greenways
• 4 Nature Centers
• 4 Disc Golf Courses
• 2 Ice Rinks
• 2 Dog Parks
• Conservatory
• Arts Center
• Velodrome
• Skate Park
• BMX Complex

safe, clean and well-maintained

annual report

2003

Partnering for Success
Eagle Creek Park Foundation
Preserving and protecting Eagle Creek Park and raising funds for park
improvements, renovations, promotions and programs.

Friends of Garfield Park
Ensuring the preservation and continuation of the public benefits of Garfield
Park through the enhanced funding, application of effective advocacy and
expanded stewardship.

Friends of Holliday Park
Preserving and maintaining Holliday Park as a place for recreation and the
study of nature.

Greenways Foundation
Improving the quality of life and health in central Indiana through the
conservation and development of an interconnected system of greenways.

Indianapolis Parks Foundation
Enhancing the recreational, educational and cultural life of the Indianapolis
community by encouraging and soliciting support for the parks system.

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 8

annual report

indy parks and recreation

2003

Community Recreation
The Community Recreation division provides high-quality
recreational services and opportunities to Marion County residents.

Community Recreation’ s
core areas:

Service delivery is
accomplished through:

Community Centers

Direct service delivery

Neighborhood Parks

Community partnerships

Arts Services

Coordinating collaborative efforts with
other agencies and organizations to most
effectively meet the needs of our residents

Day Camps and After-School Programs
Therapeutic and Inclusion Services
Maturing Adult Programs

2003 Accomplishments
• Indy Parks has joined forces with the Marion County Health Department and the National
Institute for Fitness and Sport to offer Indy in Motion – A Walk in the Park. This health
and fitness initiative, designed to be highly accessible to neighborhood residents, is offered
free at a variety of park locations throughout the county. With over 2,000 participants, this
partnership is making a huge impact on improving the health of our community.
• Organized the Indy in Motion Hearts N’ Parks Youth Rally. This program involved 15
after-school programs participating in a five-mile walk to celebrate physical fitness and
healthy lifestyles. Second through eighth grade students participated in weekly educational
and activity-based programs that increased their level of physical activity as well as their
knowledge on staying fit and eating a nutritional diet.
• The Character Discovery Challenge, Indy Parks’ Character Education Program, recently
developed a “Facilitators Manual” and received high marks on assessments and evaluations
conducted by the Indiana Youth Institute. The program reached over 4,800 youth in 2003.

Indy Parks was invited to present this program at the National Collegiate Athletic
Association and the Citizenship through Sports Alliance Annual Conference held at
the Disney Institute in Orlando, Florida.
• Leading the way for after-school programs in the state, Indy Parks helped draft the
“Basic Standards of Quality After-School Delivery.” Indy Parks was recognized in
the National Recreation and Park Association’s national publication as a leader in
program design and delivery.
• Indy Parks Summer Lunch Program served 41,876 lunches which was an increase of
6,252 lunches served over last year. The number of Summer Lunch sites also
increased from 23 in
• After conducting a lengthy search and interview process, Indy Parks hired our
first Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist in June of 2003. This addition has
spurred growth of a variety of new programs and partnerships throughout the
community. Some examples include the new Power Soccer program for individuals
using power wheel chairs, and the Adaptive Recreation Day which exposed participants to wheelchair basketball, adaptive swimming, adaptive golf, hand-powered
bicycles, and quad rugby. In addition, this staff person serves as the department’s
liaison for inclusion services, ADA issues, and community outreach to organizations servicing individuals with disabilities.
• 2,700 people enjoyed the Eclectic Music Series that featured bluegrass, country,
Celtic, Latin, folk, rock, and jazz. This new concert series showcased 16 local bands
and eight poets.
• Dance was brought back to Garfield Park at the MacAllister Center stage after a
ten year hiatus with the student and professional cast of the Gregory Hancock
Dance Theatre.
• Involved over 815 talented children, their friends, families and teachers, adult
volunteers, and local arts organizations in the Citywide Talent Contest and
Showcase performance at the Madame Walker Theatre.
• Partnered with the Mayor’s Coalition of Latino Affairs to provide a family
celebration and forum for over 1,500 Latinos in Indianapolis.
• With generous support of The Clowes Fund, 52 Young Audiences programs
reached over 3,700 children throughout Indy Parks in 2003.
• Provided Christel House Academy an after-school visual art program. Sixty-nine
classes were held with an average attendance of 48 children.

quality recreation and leisure opportunities

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 10

annual report

indy parks and recreation

Environmental and
Interpretive Services
The Environmental and Interpretive Services division provides quality
environmental education and interpretive programs to the community
through nature centers, environmental education programs, natural
and cultural history programs, fine art exhibits, and the Hub
Naturalist program.

2003

Golf
The Golf division provides high quality golf opportunities for people
of all ages and ability throughout the Indianapolis community.
This division manages municipal courses as well as plans and
oversees capital improvements at each course. It manages
course operating contracts, service contracts, and course
management contracts.

The 13 courses:
2003 Accomplishments

Coffin Golf Club

Sarah Shank Golf Course

• Environmental EdVentures received the Outstanding Interpretive Program Award from the
National Association for Interpretation, Great Lakes Region.

Douglass Golf Course

Smock Golf Course

• Implemented the first year of the Hub Naturalist program from a $190,000 grant received from
the Nina Mason Pullium Charitable Trust.

Eagle Creek Golf Course

South Grove Golf

Pleasant Run Golf Course

Thatcher Golf Course

Riverside Golf Course

Whispering Hills Golf Course

Riverside Golf Academy

Winding River Golf Course

• Reached a total of 21,000 youth in outreach environmental education programs through the
Hub Naturalist program.
• Refurbished the Nature Discovery Trailer to become a traveling nature center bringing
environmental interpretation to the community through special events, school functions,
and outreach programming.
• Received a $30,000 grant from the Central Indiana Community Foundation to offset the
cost of providing outreach programming to Indianapolis Public Schools, township schools,
and other youth organizations.
• Reached a total of 74,000 individuals in programming at Eagle Creek Nature Center, Holliday
Nature Center, Southeastway Nature Park and Glenns Valley Nature Park combined.
• Approved the design of an interpretive and informational signage package for Holliday Nature
Center with financial assistance from the Friends of Holliday.
• Reached 900 youth through two Environmental Adventure Days at Southeastway Nature Park.
• Initiated offering environmental education and interpretive programs at Southwestway Nature Park.

Sahm Golf Course

2003 Accomplishments
• Received First Tee Chapter Status for our Junior Golf Program. With this status
Indy Parks is a member of the World Golf Foundation and as such is able to participate
in grants and programs that the foundation supports. The First Tee was established to
bring affordable access of golf to inner-city youth across the country.
• Awarded $100,000 grant from the First Tee for construction of the new Junior Golf facility.
• Completed capital improvements at Coffin, Douglass, Eagle Creek, Pleasant Run, Riverside,
Sahm, South Grove and Whispering Hills to make each facility accessible to persons with
disabilities. The improvements included remodeling the clubhouses, paths of travel,
counters, and restrooms. Access ramps, new doors, and new fixtures allow persons with
disabilities to access these golf facilities.

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 12

indy parks and recreation

annual report

2003

Greenways
The Greenways division manages, improves and maintains the greenways system within Marion County to provide recreational and fitness
opportunities; promote open space conservation; link neighborhoods
together with other parks and community assets; educate the public
about the importance of the natural environment; promote economic
development by making Indianapolis a desirable place where new
businesses can locate; and redevelop and manage the Marion County
bicycle routes as part of the Indianapolis Regional Bicycle and
Pedestrian Plan, which will connect the greenways and parks system
to communities.

2003 Accomplishments
• Opened 6.5 miles of new trail including the Monon Trail extending to Downtown,
Fall Creek Greenway and the Monon Trail connecting to Fall Creek, Eagle Creek
Greenway along Raymond Street, and a one-half mile section of Little Buck Creek
Trail that was added by C.P. Morgan.

• Gleaner’s Food Bank started a mural spanning three buildings and a full-city block near 16th
Street and the Monon Trail.
• White River Clean up attracted 210 volunteers despite harsh weather conditions.
• Pedal & Park volunteers donated 819 total hours to park bicycles in partnership with the
Metropolitan Planning Organization and the Greenways Foundation at six annual city events.
• Pedal & Park events saw 77 bikes at Earth Day, 51 bikes at the Broad Ripple Art Fair,
777 bikes during the 2003 Indiana State Fair, and 270 bikes at the one-day Penrod Art Fair.
• Formed and maintained 125 partnerships.
• Partnered with 1,187 volunteers for a total of 4,947 hours.
• Partnered in hosting the Mid America Trails and Greenways Conference, bringing over 500
national visitors to Indianapolis.
• Received a Transportation Enhancement grant of $66,437 for Fall Creek Trail.
• Received $150,000 from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for expanding the greenways
trail research program with IUPUI.
• Received $1.8 million from federal grant funds for the Pennsy Trail.

• Established 12 new bike routes with signage.
• Planted over 700 trees and maintained existing native trees, shrubs, grasses and
wildflowers on greenway corridors.
• Conducted cleanups, plantings and removals on Fall Creek Corridor with local
schools, youth groups, volunteers and the Department of Public Works. Contracted
Eco Logic to control invasive plant material along the corridor.
• Partnered with Indiana University Purdue University at Indianapolis (IUPUI) and
Marian College to assess habitat and monitor wildlife – some areas included Lilly
ARBOR project, Lake Sullivan Wetlands, and the Marian College Eco Lab.
• Initiated a tree planting program on the South Monon to restore area vegetation.
Volunteers planted 86 trees provided by Indianapolis Power and Light Company (IPL).
• Relocated a 13-ton limestone sculpture, Faces of Indiana for the Millennium, to the
Monon Trail from the Indiana Governor’s residence.
• Students from Indianapolis Public Schools painted a mural on a Department of Public
Works structure near Sutherland Avenue and the Monon Trail.
• Children from the Governor’s Conference helped paint a mural at 15th Street near
the Monon Trail.

recreation resources and services

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 14

indy parks and recreation

Park Maintenance
The Park Maintenance division maintains Indy Parks facilities and
properties. Operating elements include beautification, forestry (includes
city’s street trees), horticulture, grounds and facility maintenance, land
improvement, natural resources, and land stewardship.

2003 Accomplishments
• Park Maintenance coordinated the Tornado Turnaround Event with other city agencies and
community groups. This program culminated in 987 trees being planted, 727 volunteers
supporting the planting program, and $63,000 of in-kind business community support.
As a result of its success, the program received state-wide recognition as the Project of the
Year by the Indiana Urban Forestry Council and received the “Golden Leaf” award from
the Indiana Arborist Association.

annual report

2003

Park Rangers Division
The Park Rangers division implements education safety programs,
develops community policing strategies, and is responsible for
enforcement of city ordinances, parks policies and procedures.

2003 Accomplishments
• Initiated a 6/3 rotating day off schedule which increased on duty manpower from 50% to 66%.
• Initiated a Bonus Day Program which eliminated overtime costs for holidays and the need for
compulsory callback.
• Obtained over 2,000 hours of Indiana Law Enforcement Academy (ILEA) Certified, Professional
Law Enforcement Training at no cost to the department.
• Moved the Park Ranger Cadet Program to an Explorer Program associated with and under
the auspices of the Boy Scouts of America.

• Continuing its practice of recycling storm damaged trees into mulch, the Forestry operation
produced approximately 22,000 tons of mulch with a market value of $478,000. This mulch
was used as bed cover for city maintained landscape beds.

• Established the duties and responsibilities of the department’s Risk Manager.

• Improvements made to the rowing course by the Land Improvement section enabled the
department to successfully host the 2003 NCAA Women’s National Rowing Championships
at Eagle Creek Park. As a result of the success of this event, Eagle Creek was chosen as the
host site for the 2004 US National Rowing Championship.

• The average Park Ranger received 136 hours of law enforcement related training in 2003.
Park Ranger supervisors averaged 156 hours. The state ILEA standard is 16 hours per year.

• Facility Maintenance operation staff generated $170,000 in cost savings for the department
by utilizing staff resources to design repair improvements which, in turn, allowed Facility
Maintenance staff to perform work in-house and save contractual dollars.
• Park Maintenance staff supported the city’s efforts in the 2003 America in Bloom competition. Indianapolis was named the 2003 America in Bloom city for cities having a population
of 500,000 to 1,000,000.
• As a result of the efforts of the Forestry staff, Indianapolis was named a Tree City USA for
the thirteenth straight year.

• Established special event planning within the division to provide an organized safety and
security approach to special events.

• Graduated 10 reserve officers in March 2003. These officers have donated hundreds of hours
resulting in significant savings while increasing a professional law enforcement response to
park properties.
• Ranger Field Training Officers certified over 1,000 hours of field training.
• Certified two department instructors through ILEA making a total of three.
• Provided 80 hours of basic life saving and law enforcement training to seven new Explorers.
• Established new district lines more appropriate to established jurisdictions and communications.
• Moved communications to Indianapolis Police Department channels resulting in appropriate
911 response.
• Planned, organized, and staffed over 35 special events with 500 people or more at each event.
• Established a ParkWatch Program to partner with community groups to preserve and protect
park properties.
• Conducted over 60,000 park checks in 2003.
• Created the Department of Parks and Recreation Risk Management Plan.
• Began a comprehensive review and update of all Emergency Action Plans for each facility.
• Established a Special Events Contingency Planning policy.
• Aquatics reports and third party accident reports were revamped and computerized for
electronic filing.
• Created a Department of Parks and Recreation Emergency Action Plan for inclusion in the
County Emergency Management Plan.

beneficial countywide partnerships

• Provided training and assistance in developing the Divisional Emergency Action Plans for
inclusion in the Department Emergency Action Plan.

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 16

indy parks and recreation

Resource Development
Resource Development steers the direction of the department
through resource planning, capital asset development and
sustainable strategic tactics. In addition to the planning tasks,
this division is also responsible for construction management
and project inspection, land acquisition and real estate services.
• Completed design and began construction on three community centers in Washington,
Municipal Gardens, and Christian Parks.
• Completed design and awarded contracts for community centers in Bethel and
Rhodius Parks.

annual report

2003

Sports and Special
Revenue Facilities
The Sports and Special Revenue Facilities division provides both
quality sports programs and special facilities combined with
educational opportunities for volunteers, coaches, and staff.
Some of the facilities include indoor and outdoor aquatic centers,
sports courts and fields, ice rinks, velodrome, skate park, and
BMX track.

• Implemented 48 capital improvement projects totaling over three million dollars.

2003 Accomplishments

• Received a grant for $185,000 to renovate Broad Ripple Park Boat Ramp.

• Completed improvements to Perry Ice Rink included painting the arena ceiling, new all-sports
floor in the lobby and locker room, new benches in the lobby, and new skate rental racks which
were installed to provide a professional handling and appearance to the skate rental shop.

• Completed Trust for Public Land: Land Acquisition Study.
• Designed picnic shelters for installation in seven parks.
• Designed playgrounds for installation in four parks.
• Participated in 48 public meetings.
• Completed more than 57 site plans.
• Completed purchase of the Cottonwood Lakes property of 87 acres.
• Acquired Frank and Judy O’Bannon Old Northside Soccer Park.
• Acquired three neighborhood parks.

• Chuck Klein Softball Complex hosted five youth fast-pitch tournaments and four adult
slow-pitch tournaments.
• Fall softball leagues increased to 14 teams in 2003 after having no teams register in 2002 at
the Chuck Klein Softball Complex.
• Concessions at Chuck Klein Softball Complex increased from $9,000 in 2002 to over
$24,000 in 2003.
• For the third consecutive year, Indy Parks Aquatics received the prestigious Platinum Aquatic
Safety Award from Ellis & Associates in recognition of our outstanding performance during
unannounced aquatic safety audits. Indy Parks was in the top seven percent of all Ellis clients
worldwide for 2003.
• The Aquatics Section introduced the Cancer Research Center of Hawaii and the National
Recreation and Park Association’s Pool Cool Program at eight pools and aquatic centers
teaching over 900 children and 300 lifeguards about the importance of sun protection.
• Major Taylor Velodrome in conjunction with Marian College hosted the 2003 Collegiate
National Track Cycling Championships.
• Completed renovations on the Tarkington Tennis Center.
• Youth Sports Policy, Procedure and Standards Manual completed.
• 1,000 volunteer coaches were certified through the National Alliance for Youth Sports.
• Kuntz Soccer and Sports Center hosted the 2003 Showcase Indiana which featured 16 Men’s
and Women’s Division I and II Indiana College Soccer Teams.
• Ellenberger Park’s excellence in arts programming included the first Arts Camp and a
partnership with the Irvington Guild of Artists “Walk in the Park” art show.

enhancing the quality of life

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 18

indy parks and recreation

Indy Parks and Recreation
Condensed Financial Report
for the year ended December 31, 2003
revenues:
Taxes

$21,026,369

Charges for Services

4,131,947

Federal Grants

959,082

Local Grants and Donations

112,607

Interest and Other Operating Revenues

943,090

Total Revenues

$27,173,095

other financing sources:
Sales and Lease of Property

$

269,645

Prior Year Encumbrances Parks General

3,839,338

Prior Year Encumbrances City Cumulative Capital

2,794,686

Current Year City Cumulative Capital Allocation

3,736,000

Total Revenues and Other Financing Sources

$37,812,764

expenditures:
Park and Recreation General

$26,757,459

Capital Outlays General

4,414,304

City Cumulative Capital Improvements

3,872,234

Total Expenditures

$35,043,997

FINAL INDY PARKS 2003

4/20/04

7:45 AM

Page 20

Indy Parks and Recreation
City-County Building, Room 2301
200 East Washington Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
(317) 327-PARK
www.indyparks.org



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Department of Parks and Recreation

2001 Annual Budget
Organization Chart
Department of
Parks and
Recreation

Golf

Environmental &
Interpretive
Services

Community
Recreation

Sports & Special
Revenue Facilities

Administration

Park Maintenance

Resource
Development

Greenways

Park Rangers

Contract
Administration

Nature Center
Operations

Neighborhood
Parks

Rinks

Financial Services

Grounds
Maintenance

Park Planning

Project
Management

Environmental
Education

Youth Programs

Natural Areas

Cultural Arts

Aquatics

Marketing

Facility
Maintenance

Asset Planning

Development

Security

Construction

Environmental
Education
Programs

Family Centers

Peace Games

Public Information

Athletic Fields

Design

Special Projects

Safety

Course
Maintenance

Lakes & Wetlands

Inclusive Programs

Revenue Facilities

Customer Services

Forestry

Property
Management

Senior Programs

Adult Sports

Personnel

Beautification

Land Acquisition

After-School
Programs

Youth Sports

Partnerships

Land Improvement

Special Facilities

Park Foundation

Land Stewardship

Construction

Community
Policing

City of Indianapolis

2001 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Mission Statement:

Indianapolis Parks and Recreation shall provide clear leadership and well-defined core services for enhancing positive programs and facilities for children, youth and
families.
VISION STATEMENT:
All children, youth and families shall have the opportunity to participate in well-organized recreational opportunities and enjoy safe, well-maintained park land and natural
areas.
INDY PARKS AND RECREATION GOALS FOR 2001:
• Mobilize our services to include countywide representation in cultural, leisure and recreation opportunities.
• Encourage and support natural resources, land stewardship and environmental education.
• Provide safe, clean and well-maintained park facilities for the community use and enjoyment.
• Facilitate mutually beneficial countywide partnerships.
• Facilitate the department’s capital improvement, planning and asset planning process.

Organizational Policy :
Over the past eight years the City has expanded the parks system by 22 parks and 21.5 miles of trails. During the same time period the parks department has significantly
reduced staff, making it difficult to operate and maintain park facilities, natural resources and programs. The operating budget for Parks consists of approximately
$19,000,000 of consolidated county funds generated from property tax revenues and $5,000,000 of revenues generated from fees and charges for recreational programs and
services. This accounts for the total $24,000,000 Park operating budget. In addition to this the Parks and Recreation Department receives approximately $3.5 million each
year to take care of all capital expenditure needs such as new building construction or renovation, roof repairs, updating HVAC units and paving hard surfaces including
tennis courts and basketball courts. These combined operating and capital budgets have not kept pace with the economy and cannot sufficiently support the current parks
system or the expanding needs and challenges of our community.
The last decade has seen an infusion of over $80 million in improvements to park infrastructure including new playground equipment, additional land and open space,
building renovations, expansions and installation of new facilities, as well as the growth of technological advancements. These improvements were desperately needed and
served to rescue park resources from archaic and degraded conditions.
The improvements and growth of the department of the past ten years have included:
- 3 new state of the art Aquatic Centers
- 5 complete replacements of city pools with Aquatic Centers

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

-

1 new Family Center constructed
8 Family Center renovations & expansions
1 new Nature Center
Complete renovation and upgrading of the Conservatory and Sunken Garden facility
100 Playgrounds replaced with new playgrounds designed for the 21st century
birth of total greenways system including six different trails and corridors extending over 21 miles of trials that will continue to grow and eventually inter-connect
throughout the city

The department is in a constant struggle to maintain its current assets and retain the value of its resources. This is one of the primary concerns identified in the public
planning process for the 1999 Pathways to the Future, Indy Parks Comprehensive Park, Recreation and Open-Space Plan. A recent inventory of park assets and
projected scheduling of routine maintenance and projected asset replacement indicated a need for roughly $10 million annually to properly maintain the current assets of
the department. This does not allow for additional park expansion facility improvements, increased utilization or addressing any new services or challenges.
Another phenomenon that has been witnessed is that facility improvements and renovations result in increased of utilization from the community. Restated, a more
visually pleasing space that can accommodate a diversity of activities generates increased traffic through the parks.
In the arena of program and facility utilization the department has seen a continual growth of interest and demand from the public. This increase in utilization can be
attributed to the parks and Recreation Department’s development and implementation of quality programs and services that fulfill relevant recreation and open space
needs for all members of the community. In particular, we have seen increased involvement with local schools, seniors and citizens with disabilities and special interest
groups, i.e., bark parks, skateboard parks, greenways and environmental education parks.
NEW ORGANIZATION
The Indianapolis Parks and Recreation Department Year 2001 Budget includes an organization change in structure that clearly defines each service area into a separate
division. The 2001 Park divisions include: Golf, Environmental and Interpretive Services, Community Recreation, Sports and Special Revenue Facilities, Park
Maintenance, Resource Development, Greenways, Administration, Park Rangers. The goal of this new structure is to clearly define the service areas based on the
Departments Mission Statement, the Pathways to the Future Comprehensive Plan and the Goals of Mayor Bart Peterson and the City of Indianapolis. The new
organization provides a strong foundation for the provision of core services to the community and clearly defines the purpose and mission of each division.
Administration Division:
(1)
Provide management and support to the department’s lines of business;
(2)
Provide support in areas of human resources and staff development, training, payroll administration, personnel policy and procedures, employees relations
and labor negotiations;

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)

Oversee the administration of all grants;
Manage all aspects of the departments management information systems;
Provide all marketing, promotion and communication needs of the department, including public and media relations, printing, photography, and market
research, and sponsorships;
Provide a customer service and community relations operation which includes the issuance of permits and centralized registration;
Provide support in the areas of purchasing, procurement, stock inventory, and fleet management;
Be responsible for the management of all aspects of the department’s accounting and auditing systems, including the monitoring of all cash control
systems;
Be responsible for the preparation of the budget and fiscal ordinances, as well as financial planning analysis for the department;
Administer and coordinate the preparation of all contracts within the department;
Develop, implement and manage partnership programs for the department;
Coordinate department relations with the Indianapolis Park Foundation;
Develop, implement and manage recreational program initiatives instituted through the Mayor or the department Director; and
Develop, implement and manage volunteer services for the department.

Park Maintenance Division:
(1)
Provide stewardship of natural resource areas within the department;
(2)
Manage and execute maintenance plans for park assets, and other properties;
(3)
Provide beautification, forestry, and land improvement services for the divisions;
(4)
Provide for the building and grounds maintenance of parks and facilities within the parks district;
(5)
Manage and maintain the departments forestry resources and the city street tree program; and
(6)
Coordinate, manage, and conduct all installation and maintenance of athletic field resources of the department.
Community Recreation Division:
(1)
Establish and monitor baseline quality standards for all regional, community, and neighborhood parks;
(2)
Implement an enhancement program to work with organized neighborhood entities to enhance their local parks;
(3)
Provide every neighborhood the opportunity and responsibility to reclaim stewardship of their public spaces;
(4)
Generate significant opportunities for neighborhoods to utilize parks close in proximity to their home that have major amenities not available in a
neighborhood park;
(5)
Generate sufficient fee revenue to help offset the cost of the enhanced programs and facilities;
(6)
Coordinate all amenities of the park from a resource management perspective to create additional positive, collaborative, and interactive synergies for
program and customer satisfaction;
(7)
Manage and operate programs, services, and facilities at regional, community, and neighborhood parks;

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)

Draw patrons from more than a county-wide demographic area and have a revenue enhancement focus, Marion County residents will have first priority for
services;
Create programs and events to provide leisure opportunities in a safe and enjoyable environment for all people;
Plan, develop, and provide community recreation opportunities for individuals, families and groups of Indianapolis and Marion County of varied ages and
backgrounds;
Organize activities that represent a wide range of offerings in sports, arts, play, social, self-improvement, travel, and more; and
Offer quality recreation programs to those who seek to improve their lives and the greater community good, through participation in physical, social and
creative endeavors.

Golf Division:
(1)
Create meaningful and enjoyable golfing opportunities for people of all ages and playing abilities;
(2)
Provide competitive playing conditions that meet customer expectations at fair market pricing;
(3)
Provide ancillary golf amenities like driving ranges, pro shops, golf carts, and concessions that meet quality standards; and
(4)
Ensure the golfing customer, the City of Indianapolis, and the golf operators are receiving value for dollars spent.
Greenways Division:
Indianapolis Greenways was created and established in 1994 as a section of the Natural Resource Division of the Parks Department. By 1999, Greenways was formally
established as a Division of the Parks Department.
The Greenways Division is charged with these mission statements and shall:
(1)
Provide opportunities for recreation and fitness trail activities;
(2)
Protect important wildlife habitat and promote the conservation of open space, forests and wetland areas;
(3)
Link Indianapolis neighborhoods with each other and with parks and other community assets;
(4)
Educate the public about the importance of the natural environment of the Greenways System;
(5)
Become an economic asset to the community by promoting economic development and by making Indianapolis a desirable place where new businesses
can locate;
(6)
Operator and management of Marion County Bicycle Routes as part of the Indianapolis Regional Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan, connects our neighborhoods
to the Parks System as well as the City’s resources, connects our surrounding communities with the regional plan;
(7)
Management and coordination of grant development for the Department; and
(8)
Management and coordination of greenways’ properties and development.
Park Ranger Division:
(1) Provide for the safety and security of all park and recreation facilities, services, and customers;

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

(2) Manage the park ranger program;
(3) Manage the park ranger Weed & Seed program;
(4) Develop and manage the educational safety programs of the department;
(5) Develop, manage and execute safety policy and procedures at department parks and facilities;
(6) Implement and manage OSHA standards and monitor department compliance;
(7) Enforce city, state, local ordinances/statutes/rules on park properties;
(8) Develop and perform environmental and safety programs for school and civic groups; and
(9) Develop and implement Community Policing strategies for park properties.
Resource Development Division:
(1)
With respect to project/asset management:
a. Manage the scoping, planning, design and construction of parks and facilities and administer the Capitol Improvement Program;
b. Utilize knowledge of the construction industry and requirement of the city bidding process to manage the design, bidding and construction of park
facilities; and
c. Protect and maintain the investment of parks and greenways by setting high standards for design, construction, project management and adherence to
safety and ADA issues.
(2)
With respect to planning:
a. Ensure a comprehensive cycle of planning and development which combines public input, professional standards, responsible use of public
investment, and process evaluation to promote constant improvement;
b. Coordinates the input of all citizens in the planning process and communication of the plan for future park development; and
c. Develop comprehensive/park master planning:
i. Provide long range and short term evaluation, and guidelines, parks improvements, property acquisition and countywide park and recreation
needs;
ii. Coordinate development of parks based on physical resources and identified community needs; and
iii. Define park functions and proposed uses.
(3)
With respect to real-estate/land acquisition:
a. Manage the inventory of all parks property;
b. Coordinate all property transaction for the department;
c. Coordinate government grants of right-of-way, easement, rights-of- entry and leases; and
d. Before any city-owned park land (defined herein as real estate which is currently being used as a public park or is designated for such use in the
comprehensive plan approved by the parks board, but including park land legally designated as surplus property) is disposed of for any purpose other than
its intended use as a park, there shall be a special notice and mailing to residents in the area around the park, and a special public hearing shall be held with
no less than four (4) weeks advance notice to citizens in the park’s vicinity.

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

(4)

With respect to land improvement:
a. Provide support, in the coordination and management of improvements to park properties such as playgrounds;
b. Construct trails;
c. Conduct general sites improvements/repairs;
d. Demolition of hazardous facilities;
e. Perform concrete repairs at facilities;
f. Rebuild athletic fields; and
g. Provide heavy equipment support for departmental needs.

Environmental and Interpretive Services Division:
(1)
Manage and operate nature programs, services, and facilities at nature parks;
(2)
Create and offer quality nature programs, events and services in a safe and enjoyable environment for all people;
(3)
Plan, develop, and provide nature programs and services for individuals, families and groups of Indianapolis and Marion County of varied ages and
backgrounds;
(4)
Establish and monitor baseline quality standards for all nature parks;
(5)
Implement an enhancement program to work with organized neighborhood entities to enhance nature parks and program services;
(6)
Provide every neighborhood the opportunity and responsibility to reclaim stewardship of their public spaces; and
(7)
Generate sufficient fee revenue to help offset the cost of the enhanced programs and facilities.

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

Sports and Special Revenue Facilities Division:
(1) Manage and operate programs and services at sports and special facilities;
(2) Create and offer quality sports and aquatic programs, special events and services in a safe and enjoyable environment for all people;
(3) Plan, develop, and provide sports and aquatic programs, special events and services for individuals, families and groups of Indianapolis and Marion County of
varied ages and backgrounds;
(4) Establish and monitor baseline quality standards for all sports, aquatic and special facilities;
(5) Work with organized neighborhood entities to enhance sports, aquatic and special facilities and program services;
(6) Provide every neighborhood the opportunity and responsibility to reclaim stewardship of their public spaces;
(7) Draw patrons from more than a county-wide demographic area and have a revenue enhancement focus, Marion County residents will have first priority for
services; and
(8) Generate sufficient fee revenue to help offset the cost of programs and facilities.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - STRATEGIC PLAN DEVELOPMENT:
The 1999 Indianapolis Marion County Park, Recreation, and Open Space Plan: “Pathways to the Future” is the department's tool to respond to the direction for present
and future recreation activities within Marion County. While it is a comprehensive plan focusing on the next five years of Indy Parks, “Pathways to the Future” is truly
a twenty-year plan of challenges and opportunities. It is a plan that reflects intense community input and a plan that drives action, activity and accountability.
“Pathways Plan” addresses:
1. Stewardship and Environmental Education
2. Sustainability of the Parks Department
3. Improving Customer Satisfaction
4. Forging Partnerships
5. Accessible Parks and Programs
6. Mission Driven Services
PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS:
Indianapolis Parks and Recreation Department realizes that in order to maximize and expand department resources to serve the community “partnerships” with other
agencies and organizations need to be developed. Partnership efforts between Indy Parks, schools, neighborhood organizations, churches, businesses and service
providers will successfully demonstrate how shared resources and knowledge can more efficiently and effectively service the recreational, educational and social needs

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

of a community. Partnerships also enhance the variety and accessibility of programs and activities available to the public and cut down on duplication of efforts and
services.
WYMS Summer Concert Series
WYMS—a local radio station—will partner with Indy Parks and Recreation to bring FREE concerts to the public. WYMS will attract local and national artists to bring
a wide array of musical entertainment to the Indianapolis community. The Parks Department will provide the location show wagon and sound system to make the 2001
concert series a success.
Monday Night at the Movies
In the year 2001 Indy Parks and Recreation will again offer the Indianapolis community free neighborhood summer movies. Funding for the movie series is from local
sponsors who support the Mayor’s efforts of bringing family back into the parks. Eight or more movies will be shown in various neighborhood parks throughout
Marion County.
Lee Elder Junior Golf Program
The Lee Elder Junior Golf Program is in its fourth season of providing FREE golf instruction to youth from ages 5 to 17. Over 1,000 young residents of Marion County
learn and develop skills in a sport that has become popular with youth in the last five years. The other program component is a golf tournament that is played in the
twelve Indianapolis municipal golf courses. The tournament is offered at a nominal fee and also provides lunch to young participants.
After-School
Indy Parks and Recreation will partner with various youth-serving organizations to offer holistic programs in various school locations in Marion County. Eventually the
After-school program will be offered in elementary, middle and high schools.

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation
New Initiatives:

Major Taylor Sports Complex: Direct management of programs & services at Major Taylor Sports Complex.
Adult Softball Programs: Direct management of citywide adult sports programs.
Corporate Development: Establishment of a “Corporate Development” area to promote use of our parks by local businesses and generate needed revenue.
Customer Service: Direct management of customer services for the department.
Bush Stadium: Re-use and multiple use of Bush Stadium.
Revenue and Expenses: Separation of programs and services into those designed to produce revenue and those designed to simply offset expenses.
Environmental and Interpretive Services Master Plan: Initiation of the “Environmental and Interpretive Services Master Plan”.
Arts: New emphasis on the arts, and exposing our youth to the arts.
Accessibility: Enhance the accessibility of department programs and services.
Operations Planning: Development of operation plans for each Division.
Senior Activities: New emphasis on providing programs and services to senior citizens.
Eagle Creek Golf Course: Opening of new nine (9) holes at Eagle Creek Golf Course.
Golf Clubs To Kids: Provide golf clubs to kids for use at the city golf courses. The golf division will purchase junior sets of clubs and distribute them to the various
courses for use by youth at no charge. The clubs will remain on site for other children to use.
Douglass Golf Course: Install new irrigation system at Douglass Golf Course.
Mentoring Program: Initiate a mentoring program assigning rangers to elementary schools co-located with parks.

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

New Approach Anti-drug Program: Participate with the Indianapolis Police Department and near eastside community in the New Approach Anti-drug Program to
reduce street level drugs and prostitution in the East Washington Street corridor.
Mowing and Trash Removal: Assume all direct mowing and trash removal for the department’s larger Community and Regional Parks.

NOTE: The 2001 budget for the Department of Parks and Recreation reflects the new organizational structure. To assist in making comparisons between years, the
actual expenses and budgets have been re-stated to reflect the new organizational structure.

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation
Performance Measures

Performance measures are listed by division.

Administration
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
# of media stories, photos generated
# of calls taken in customer service

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

896
27,322

1000
29,000

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

1500
100%

800
100%

2000
100%

50
21 daily

110
13
50
22 daily

70
13
50
22 daily

110
15
50
22 daily

20 weekly
26 weekly

21 weekly
26 weekly
95%

14 weekly
14 weekly
95%

20 weekly
26 weekly
95%

74 acres
5,938
$18,910
$90,000

40 acres
35,000
$15,000
$30,000

40 acres
35,150
$11,400
$3,000

728
8,831

2001 Target
1000
30,000

Park Maintenance
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
System that Works
Facility Maintenance
% of work orders completed
% of pools & fountains open on time
Beautification, Forestry, Athletic Fields
% of hazardous trees removed
# of community beautification Projects
# of flower beds planted
# of diamonds maintained monthly
Ground Maintenance
# of mowing cycles completed (in-house)
# of trash cycles completed (in-house)
% of parks passing mowing inspections
Land Stewardship
Acres managed for invasive exotic specie
# of native plants reintroduced
Value of volunteer hours
Value of Partnerships

100%

2001 Target

55 acres
15,000
15,000
6,000

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

Community Recreation
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Preparing our Youth
Program Attendance
Park Attendance
Rental Attendance
Customer Satisfaction
# of Partnerships
Value of Partnerships
Volunteer Hours

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

1,094,700
488,029
506,416
99%
61
$92,145
26,449

1,200,000
500,000
550,000
95%
65
$150,000
30,000

370,955
199,537
367,884
97%
56
$279,335
8,471

1,500,000
500,000
300,000
98%
6
$300,000
30,000

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

497,579
$10,654,857
$1,136,350
$12,000

516,000
$10,750,000
$1,662,000

151,762
$3,260,876
$ 608,934
$9,825

505,000
$10,725,000
$1,750,000

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

12
60
1,500,000
1
203

15
72
2,000,000
2
210

9.5
72
2,225,000
1
125

17
87
3,000,000
3
220

Golf Division
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Preparing our Youth
Rounds Played
Gross Revenues
Parks Share of Revenues
Pass Sales

Greenways
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Systems that Work
Miles of Trail Planed and Designed
Miles of Trail Maintained
Grants Dollars Received
# of Art Projects Completed
# of Programs, presentations, meetings

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

# of Partnerships
Value of Partnerships/Grants

40
$1,059,000

45
1,200,000

25
$600,000

50
$1,500,000

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

3180
5476

3200
4500

2363
1316

3500
4000

32,505

30,000
1250
3700

24,123
3546
2642

35,000
15,000
4200

Park Rangers
Outcome
Activity
Assuring personal Safety
Special Event man-hours
Pool Security man-hours
Preparing Our Youth
Environmental Exhibit Attendance
School w/a Park Program
Environmental Education for Schools

2933

Resource Development
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Construction
# of Construction Projects Completed
# of Playgrounds Installed
# of Shelter Houses Installed

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

8
8
8

10
12
0

2
5
0

6
5
4

Asset Management
% of property leases updated/initiated
Acres of Park Property Acquired
# of energy audit analysis

0
134 acres
12

5
239 acres
12

3
127 acres
6

2
88 acres
12

2
35

4
20

4
15

5
20

Planning
# of Park Master Plans Complete
# of Public Planning Meetings

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

# of CIP Projects Completed
# of Partnerships

8
3

10
6

6
4

15
3

Environmental and Interpretive Services
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Preparing our Youth
Program Attendance
Park Attendance
Rental Attendance
Customer Satisfaction
# of Partnerships
Value of Partnerships
Volunteer Hours

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

673,462
22,024
194,325
99.6 %
28
$13,347
11,688

700,000
25,000
195,000
95%
35
$15,000
12,000

175,801
25,357
62,427
97%
14
19,465
6,092

750,000
30,000
200,00
98%
3
20,000
12,000

1999 Actual

2000 Target

June 2000 Actual

2001 Target

306,485
148,480
670,976
96 %
13
$7,571
1,166

350,000
150,000
700,000
95%
15
$10,000
12,000

151,683
50,592
108,048
97%
10
4,839
1,215

400,000
150,000
750,000
99%
1
$15,000
13,000

Sports and Revenue
Outcome
Activity
Strengthening Neighborhoods
Preparing our Youth
Program Attendance
Park Attendance
Rental Attendance
Customer Satisfaction
# of Partnerships
Value of Partnerships
Volunteer Hours

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

Staffing (All staffing levels in the budget book are expressed as Full Time Equivalents, or F.T.E. One F.T.E. is based on a full time employee’s work year of 2,080
hours. To calculate F.T.E.’s for part time or seasonal employees, the total of the hours budgeted is divided by 2,080.

Division
ADMINISTRATION

Employee Classification
BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
Subtotal Administration Division

1999
Budget
14.50
0.00
3.52
18.02

2000
Budget
20.00
0.00
0.31
20.31

Jun-00
Actual
17.00
0.00
0.38
17.38

2001
Budget
22.00
1.26
0.38
23.64

PARK MAINTENANCE

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
UNION POSITION FTE
Subtotal Park Maintenance Division

11.80
0.00
10.56
72.00
94.36

14.32
0.00
12.91
72.00
99.23

13.00
0.00
9.50
67.00
89.50

16.00
0.00
13.12
71.00
100.12

SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACIL BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
Subtotal Sports and Revenue Facilities Division

8.50
4.48
70.90
83.88

17.00
17.82
82.40
117.22

17.00
1.26
93.11
111.37

17.00
17.44
82.30
116.74

COMMUNITY RECREATION

31.00
12.96
11.91
55.87

43.00
9.71
18.04
70.75

39.00
3.65
24.73
67.38

43.00
10.01
20.23
73.24

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
Subtotal Community Recreation Division

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation

Staffing (cont’d)
1999
Budget
18.00
5.28
10.38
33.66

2000
Budget
21.00
0.92
9.11
31.03

Jun-00
Actual
21.00
2.52
10.22
33.74

2001
Budget
21.00
1.43
9.39
31.82

Subtotal Greenways Division

2.00
0.88
0.48
3.36

4.00
0.00
0.31
4.31

4.00
0.00
0.00
4.00

4.00
0.00
0.38
4.38

Subtotal Golf Division

1.00
0.00
1.00

1.00
0.29
1.29

1.00
0.31
1.31

1.00
0.38
1.38

RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT

BI-W EEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
UNION POSITION FTE
Subtotal Resource Development Division

6.00
0.00
0.00
16.00
22.00

11.00
0.00
0.31
16.00
27.31

10.00
0.00
0.00
17.00
27.00

11.00
0.00
0.31
17.00
28.31

PARK RANGERS

BI-W EEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
Subtotal Park Rangers Division

25.00
0.88
25.88

29.00
0.00
29.00

27.00
0.00
27.00

29.00
0.00
29.00

117.80
24.48
107.75
88.00
338.03

160.32
28.45
123.68
88.00
400.45

149.00
7.43
138.25
84.00
378.68

164.00
30.14
126.49
88.00
408.63

Division
Employee Classification
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SBI-W EEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE
Subtotal Environmental and Interpretive Services Division
GREENWAYS

GOLF

BI-W EEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE

BI-W EEKLY POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE

TOTAL - BIW EEKLY FTE
TOTAL - PART TIME FTE
TOTAL - SEASONAL FTE
TOTAL - UNION
GRAND TOTAL

City of Indianapolis
Budget

2001 Annual
Department of Parks and Recreation
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements

1999
Actual
Resources
730
750
760
770
790

CHARGES FOR SERVICES
INTERGOVERNMENTAL
SALE AND LEASE OF PROPERTY
FEES FOR SERVICES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE

2000
Original
Budget

Estimated
Final 2000
Budget

2001
Proposed
Budget

2001 To 2000
Original
Difference

2001 To
2000
Est. Final
Difference

12,111
125,183
308,858
3,745,921
381,088

1,000
0
470,150
3,866,281
30,500

1,000
1,470,936
470,150
3,866,281
35,500

1,000
0
212,960
4,159,663
73,309

0
0
-257,190
293,382
42,809

0
-1,470,936
-257,190
293,382
37,809

24,404,554

20,660,578

22,161,217

23,440,323

2,779,745

1,279,106

Total Resources

28,977,715

25,028,509

28,005,084

27,887,255

2,858,746

-117,829

Requirements
010
PERSONAL SERVICES
020
MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030
OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040
PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050
INTERNAL CHARGES

11,066,682
1,237,239
7,622,545
7,324,732
1,726,517

11,471,541
1,107,006
6,701,991
3,861,442
1,886,529

12,411,541
1,259,798
7,572,493
4,874,723
1,886,529

13,180,208
1,373,619
7,239,601
4,561,383
1,532,444

1,708,667
266,613
537,610
699,941
-354,085

768,667
113,821
-332,892
-313,340
-354,085

Total Requirements

28,977,715

25,028,509

28,005,084

27,887,255

2,858,746

-117,829

From (To) Fund Balance

City of Indianapolis

2001 Annual Budget
PARKS AND RECREATION
1999
Actual

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
101 SALARIES - WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
180 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
190 SPECIAL PAY/COMPENSATION
191 EMPLOYEE INITIATIVES
TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES
TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET

2000
Original
Budget

Estimated
Final 2000
Budget

2001
Proposed
Budget

2001 to 2000
Original
Difference

2001 to 2000
Est. Final
Difference

3,510,034
2,432,498
2,355,746
815,412
650,861
59,150
403,105
692,347
9,782
137,748
0
0

3,878,166
2,485,278
2,534,834
161,998
812,632
76,372
365,223
697,463
1,236
227,945
220,394
10,000

4,053,696
2,559,836
3,459,752
161,998
812,632
76,372
365,223
697,463
1,236
227,945
-14,612
10,000

5,176,010
2,628,299
2,673,978
224,855
881,752
83,664
392,567
803,422
966
153,075
161,620
0

1,297,844
143,021
139,144
62,857
69,120
7,292
27,344
105,959
-270
-74,870
-58,774
-10,000

1,122,314
68,463
-785,774
62,857
69,120
7,292
27,344
105,959
-270
-74,870
176,232
-10,000

11,066,682

11,471,541

12,411,541

13,180,208

1,708,667
14.9%

768,667
6.2%

35,145
13,812
114,964
577,353
79,273
6,355
95,813
212,679
4,055
97,791

43,331
13,425
165,053
513,969
46,678
9,315
88,570
137,700
5,070
83,895

41,881
12,675
170,253
582,161
55,678
9,315
89,670
195,300
5,070
97,795

42,728
18,890
204,120
609,162
61,170
7,000
113,434
206,025
2,200
108,890

-603
5,465
39,067
95,193
14,492
-2,315
24,864
68,325
-2,870
24,995

847
6,215
33,867
27,001
5,492
-2,315
23,764
10,725
-2,870
11,095

1,237,239

1,107,006

1,259,798

1,373,619

266,613
24.1%

113,821
9.0%

City of Indianapolis

2001 Annual Budget
PARKS AND RECREATION
1999
Actual

CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
315 TEMPORARY SERVICES
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
347 PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
368 INSURANCE PREMIUMS
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
377 LEGAL SETTLEMENTS AND JUDGMENTS
380 GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES
381 GRANTS TO SUPPORT ARTS
389 BANK CHARGES
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

28,595
693,741
1,043,557
721,568
300,778
8,055
20,909
409
92,768
211,201
37,220
154,888
626,437
841,774
34,023
165,710
5,822
58,715
1,172,318
68,605
31,939
288,673
12,424
95,774
2,731
1,006
8,875
110,275
750,000
424
33,330

2000
Original
Budget
29,343
335,900
687,850
651,502
335,600
0
0
6,500
93,240
173,022
52,250
166,195
504,393
627,031
24,050
122,270
7,500
49,414
1,315,203
36,286
4,575
500,600
28,950
85,540
3,012
1,665
75,000
0
750,000
0
35,100

Estimated
Final 2000
Budget
24,343
218,790
1,269,824
747,362
422,600
0
25,000
6,500
89,040
172,022
30,850
135,945
498,961
654,709
160,615
100,470
7,500
94,414
1,231,637
36,286
6,875
647,383
28,950
98,540
2,112
1,665
75,000
0
750,000
0
35,100

2001
Proposed
Budget
18,950
210,900
312,550
786,917
261,000
0
1,000
6,850
111,435
213,068
41,020
178,506
507,377
1,173,750
131,150
114,903
7,500
277,161
1,409,792
32,670
19,875
259,000
15,750
101,825
4,570
1,482
0
0
1,000,000
1,200
39,400

2001 to 2000
Original
Difference
-10,393
-125,000
-375,300
135,415
-74,600
0
1,000
350
18,195
40,046
-11,230
12,311
2,984
546,719
107,100
-7,367
0
227,747
94,589
-3,616
15,300
-241,600
-13,200
16,285
1,558
-183
-75,000
0
250,000
1,200
4,300

2001 to 2000
Est. Final
Difference
-5,393
-7,890
-957,274
39,555
-161,600
0
-24,000
350
22,395
41,046
10,170
42,561
8,416
519,041
-29,465
14,433
0
182,747
178,155
-3,616
13,000
-388,383
-13,200
3,285
2,458
-183
-75,000
0
250,000
1,200
4,300

City of Indianapolis

2001 Annual Budget
PARKS AND RECREATION
1999
Actual

TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
400 LAND
405 BUILDINGS
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
425 VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT
440 INFRASTRUCTURE
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT
TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
510 CENTRAL SERVICES CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
550 INTER DEPARTMENTAL CHARGES
TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET
TOTAL PARKS AND RECREATION
PERCENTAGE CHANGE TO PROPOSED 2001 BUDGET

2000
Original
Budget

Estimated
Final 2000
Budget

2001
Proposed
Budget

2001 to 2000
Original
Difference

2001 to 2000
Est. Final
Difference

7,622,545

6,701,991

7,572,493

7,239,601

537,610
8.0%

-332,892
-4.4%

24,282
891,718
4,947,554
85,116
120,308
461,629
597,202
196,923

3,000
0
3,188,494
60,000
168,800
172,000
0
269,148

301,250
71,296
3,313,534
73,338
250,957
165,870
330,335
368,143

3,000
100,000
3,618,385
96,249
237,007
35,400
0
471,342

0
100,000
429,891
36,249
68,207
-136,600
0
202,194

-298,250
28,704
304,851
22,911
-13,950
-130,470
-330,335
103,199

7,324,732

3,861,442

4,874,723

4,561,383

699,941
18.1%

-313,340
-6.4%

72,207
867,365
786,945

125,443
720,000
1,041,086

125,443
720,000
1,041,086

109,508
856,061
566,875

-15,935
136,061
-474,211

-15,935
136,061
-474,211

1,726,517

1,886,529

1,886,529

1,532,444

-354,085
-18.8%

-354,085
-18.8%

28,977,715

25,028,509

28,005,084

27,887,255

2,858,746

-117,829

11.4%

-0.4%



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Department of Parks and Recreation

2005 Annual Budget
Organization Chart

Department of
Parks and
Recreation

Golf

Environmental &
Interpretive
Services

Community
Recreation

Sports & Special
Revenue Facilities

Administration

Park Maintenance

Resource
Development

Greenways

Park Rangers

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

Mission Statement
The Department of Parks and Recreation provides clear leadership and well-defined direction for enhancing the quality of life for Indianapolis and
Marion County residents by: providing and/or facilitating quality recreation and leisure opportunities, encouraging and supporting natural and
cultural resource stewardship and environmental education, including safe, clean and well-maintained park facilities for the community’s use and
enjoyment, and promoting and facilitating mutually beneficial countywide partnerships.
Highlights of Parks and Recreation
During the year 2005, the Department of Parks and Recreation will:
•

create new opportunities and programs for fitness on the greenways,

•

create a mayoral challenge/commitment program,

•

create a fitness guide that details all the free or low-cost activities available in parks,

•

expand “A Walk in the Park” to promote walking programs to schools, churches, and neighborhood organizations, and work directly with key
partners such as the Marion County Health Department,

•

develop a comprehensive asset/preventative maintenance plan to assist in developing the annual capital improvement plan,

•

increase the city’s parkland and open space inventory,

•

review current performance measures for certified minority-and women-owned businesses to ensure equal opportunity, achieve minority
business involvement at 10% and women-owned business involvement at 2%,

•

engage the Latino community in the city parks and park programs,

•

establish the Indy Parks Latino Outreach Initiative made possible by the Clowes Fund,

•

increase partnership opportunities in the Latino community,

•

actively partner in the regional cultural tourism movement by facilitating art experiences,

•

promote our parks system as the facilitator of cultural tourism,

•

develop public arts in Indianapolis, identify existing works of public art, prioritize locations for future artwork, support temporary public art
exhibits, and research potential funding sources for public art,

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

•

assist in hosting the Historic Park and Boulevard System symposium to raise awareness of the history of our parks system (e.g., the George
Kessler Plan, historical landmarks), and

•

aggressively pursue alternative funding sources through donor, grant, and partnership opportunities.

SERVICE AREA:

Administration and Support Services

Activities:

Perform a variety of functions essential to the organization, including finance, marketing and public relations, managing
grants, alliances and partnerships, corporate sponsorships, and many other special projects. This area also facilitates
and coordinates cross-departmental activities, which provide internal services to the operating agencies of city and county
government.

Objective:

To ensure that all necessary internal functions are performed in a timely manner in support of all divisions and to induce
satisfied patrons.

Service Commitment:
In the coming year, the administration and support services area will:
• apply for thirty-five grants for a total value of 2.25 million dollars for expansion of programs, services, and facilities using limited tax dollars,
• develop 190 partnerships with a total value of 1.1 million dollars for expansion of services using non-tax dollars,
• record a customer satisfaction rating of 98%,
• produce monthly revenue reports,
• create Activity Based Costing for facilities,
• create facility guide,
• develop electronic newsletter on Indy Parks web site, and
• develop electronic mapping of parks on the Indy Parks web site.
SERVICE AREA:

Safe Parks and Greenways

Activities:

The Park Rangers Division patrols parks, greenways, and golf courses. Park Rangers support special events, serve
as the risk management office for the department, and as mentors to elementary and high school students.

Objective:

To provide for the safety and security of all park properties, facilities, greenways, golf courses, wildlife, and
environment. Continue efforts to engage the community and especially youth in efforts to protect park properties for
the enjoyment and use of future generations. Enforce state laws, local ordinances, and park regulations to insure the
comfort and enjoyment of park properties by all patrons.

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

Service Commitment:
The safe parks and greenways service area will:
• increase the number of Explorers and Reserves by 10% to provide better coverage at Indy Parks events,
• provide all Park Rangers training with the missing persons unit and Station 29 from Indianapolis Fire Department to increase the training and
awareness of missing children in the parks,
• increase the number of Students with a Park (SWAP) visits to twenty during the school year, and
• decrease the number of false alarm runs by 20% to park properties through training and education.

SERVICE AREA:

Quality Parks and Facilities

Activities:

Planning, resource development, implementation and management of greenways, asset management, sustainable
maintenance, acquisition and real estate management, golf administration, and stewardship for park resources.

To steer the direction of the department through resource planning, capital asset development, and sustainable
maintenance.
Service Commitment:
In the coming year, the quality parks and facilities service area will:
• inspect, repair and maintain 150,000 linear feet of trails within parks,
• inspect and maintain a minimum of 7,000 square feet of annual flower beds/displays,
• place thirty-one acres of parkland into an alternative mowing program,
• collaborate to conduct twenty-five park clean-up and beautification projects in neighborhood parks,
• break ground on constructing the First Tee of Indianapolis junior golf facility,
• develop a volunteer/mentor program to assist the junior golf program,
• develop additional in-school golf programs to continue the growth of junior golf participation,
• acquire 150 acres of parkland using limited tax dollars,
• complete thirty park master/site plans, and
• expand the Fall Creek Trail from 56th Street north to Skiles Test Nature Park (6828 Fall Creek Road).
Objective:

SERVICE AREA:

Quality Recreation Programs/Empower and Involve Youth

Activities:

Coordinate and implement numerous park programs and operate aquatic centers and a variety of sports, recreation,
and environmental education interpretive services.

Objective:

To provide high quality recreation and leisure services and opportunities to the Indianapolis community. To manage
and deliver recreation, sports, and environmental education programs and services at the various family centers and
neighborhood parks. To provide both quality sports programs and special facilities combined with educational

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

opportunities for volunteers, coaches, and staff.
Service Commitment:
In the coming year, the quality recreation programs/empower and involve youth service area will:
• certify and complete background checks on over 500 volunteer youth sport coaches,
• host a minimum of fifteen state, national, or international events at Chuck Klein Softball Complex, Kuntz Soccer Stadium, Major Taylor
Velodrome, Lake Sullivan BMX Track, and Perry Ice Rink,
• maintain the highest rating (Platinum Safety Award) given by Ellis and Associates for aquatic safety, training, and preparedness for aquatics
services and facilities,
• develop awareness program for the promotion of youth sports safety, quality program delivery and volunteer training,
• develop a comprehensive training program for recreation inclusion services,
• identify community resources to expand summer day camp programs for children with autism,
• complete design and development of an annual senior program guide,
• initiate a quarterly senior newsletter,
• develop a new initiative for offering a minimum of six inter-generational programs,
• provide the supervised play program at three new locations,
• offer the summer lunch program at five new locations,
• develop a township outreach program with local partners to offer recreational opportunities in townships where there is little or no access to
family centers,
• expand the Character Discover Challenge program by instituting internal training and certification program for additional parks,
• expand youth drug prevention by certifying two additional staff in the Afternoons R.O.C.K. in Indiana program,
• increase teen programs by 25% including the development of a new teen oriented drop-in site at Riverside Family Center,
• develop a program design model for use of the challenge course at Washington Park, and
• increase environmental education program participation by 20% through the hub naturalist/trailer program.

SERVICE AREA:

Support for the Arts

Activities:

Arts programs, cultural tourism events, and various performances including musical concerts, theatrical performances,
and art exhibits.

Objective:

To integrate arts and cultural development into a variety of recreational opportunities available for citizens and tourists.
To provide free programs to expose new user groups to artistic experiences.

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

Service Commitment:
In the coming year, the support for the arts services area will:
• expand outdoor concerts to a variety of park locations to disperse both the availability of these programs and the use of the parks,
• increase advertising and marketing efforts for concerts in new venues,
• continue to present the Pops Concert Series, the Friday Night Live at the Mac Series, and Theatre in the Park, while expanding dance
performances during the Performing Arts Festival at the MacAllister Center in Garfield Park,
• continue to present the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra in the Park, twelve lunchtime concerts at downtown Indianapolis locations (such as
Indianapolis City Market and the Indiana Historical Society Canal Plaza), Jazz in the Park and Blues in the Hood at Watkins Park, Jazz Concert
Series at Broad Ripple Park, Arts at the Creek at the Eagle Creek Park Marina, the Holliday Park Summer Arts Series, and other arts events
during the Performing Arts Tour,
• revitalize visual and performing arts programs at the new Arts Center in Garfield Park and in after-school programs throughout Indy Parks
including workshops, classes, and exhibits,
• present twelve outdoor summer movies in the parks,
• sustain youth arts programs at summer day camps, after-school programs and special events including Young Audiences of Indiana year-round
programs, Etheridge Knight, Inc. poetry workshops, the Indy Parks All-American Chorus at Arsenal Technical High School, the visual arts
programs at Thatcher and Washington Parks, the Citywide Talent Contest, and the Children’s Folk Dance Festival,
• prepare for the opening of the Garfield Park Arts Center by working with the advisory council to create programs in the performing, visual,
literary and production arts while gaining awareness and community support,
• expand public art along the greenways with no additional tax dollars through a partnership with the Indianapolis Arts Center, and
• maintain the new Arts Park with the Indianapolis Art Center utilizing the existing budget.

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

2003
Budget

2004
Budget

2005
Budget

21.00

21.00

21.00

0.69

0.69

0.69

Subtotal Administration

21.69

21.69

21.69

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

21.00

22.00

22.00

PART TIME POSITION FTE

3.52

1.88

1.88

SEASONAL STAFF FTE

18.66

19.61

19.61

UNION POSITION FTE

88.00

88.00

88.00

131.18

131.49

131.49

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

21.00

21.00

21.00

PART TIME POSITION FTE

10.94

21.21

35.29

Division

Employee Classification

ADMINISTRATION

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
SEASONAL STAFF FTE

PARK MAINTENANCE

Subtotal Park Maintenance
SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITIES

COMMUNITY RECREATION

ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SERVICES

SEASONAL STAFF FTE

101.57

89.9

75.82

Subtotal Sports and Special Revenue

133.51

132.11

132.11

50.00

50.00

50.00

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE
PART TIME POSITION FTE

15.06

15.06

16.33

SEASONAL STAFF FTE

20.23

20.92

19.65

Subtotal Community Recreation

85.29

85.98

85.98

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

19.00

19.00

19.00

PART TIME POSITION FTE

3.61

0.97

1.62

SEASONAL STAFF FTE

6.99

6.98

6.33

UNION POSITION FTE

0.00

3.00

3.00

29.60

29.95

29.95

Subtotal Environmental & Interpretive Services

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation

2003
Budget

2004
Budget

2005
Budget

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

4.00

5.00

5.00

PART TIME POSITION FTE

0.63

0.00

0.00

Subtotal Greenways

4.63

5.00

5.00

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

1.00

1.00

1.00

PART TIME POSITION FTE

0.88

0.88

0.88

Subtotal Golf

1.88

1.88

1.88

Division

Employee Classification

GREENWAYS

GOLF

RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT

PARK RANGERS

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

7.00

7.00

7.00

SEASONAL STAFF FTE

0.31

0.00

0.00

Subtotal Resource Development

7.31

7.00

7.00

BI-WEEKLY POSITION FTE

28.00

28.00

28.00

Subtotal Park Rangers

28.00

28.00

28.00

TOTAL - BIWEEKLY FTE

172.00

174.00

174.00

TOTAL - PART TIME FTE

34.64

40.00

56.00

TOTAL - SEASONAL FTE

148.45

138.10

122.10

TOTAL - UNION FTE
GRAND TOTAL

88.00

91.00

91.00

443.09

443.10

443.10

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
730

CHARGES FOR SERVICES

750

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

959,682

30,000

545,315

191,904

760

SALE AND LEASE OF PROPERTY

269,645

235,222

235,222

142,247

770

FEES FOR SERVICES

3,987,895

4,636,405

4,636,405

1,768,498

790

MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE

Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

6,488

800

800

8,950

800

0

0

30,000

0

-515,315

235,222

0

0

4,685,840

49,435

49,435

459,611

87,350

367,767

133,947

72,350

-15,000

-295,417

32,366,891

26,396,217

29,234,971

16,500,412

26,386,432

-9,785

-2,848,538

38,050,210

31,385,994

35,020,480

18,745,957

31,410,644

24,650

-3,609,835

Requirements
010

PERSONAL SERVICES

14,948,017

15,584,765

15,606,670

7,222,841

15,767,374

182,609

160,704

020

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

1,270,022

1,285,069

1,369,941

684,914

1,287,122

2,053

-82,819

030

OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

9,560,234

9,104,945

9,378,542

7,135,223

9,095,606

-9,339

-282,936

040

PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

10,908,028

3,890,729

7,144,841

3,076,385

3,763,265

-127,464

-3,381,576

050

INTERNAL CHARGES

1,363,909

1,520,486

1,520,486

626,595

1,497,277

-23,209

-23,209

38,050,210

31,385,994

35,020,480

18,745,957

31,410,644

24,650

-3,609,835

Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
2003
Actual

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
101 SALARIES - WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
180 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
190 SPECIAL PAY/COMPENSATION
TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

5,838,719
2,717,339
3,162,368
309,276
1,261,066
79,649
368,652
894,931
46,401
269,614
0

5,991,162
2,975,697
3,123,890
225,000
1,503,162
88,980
488,858
929,519
0
258,498
0

5,979,587
2,975,697
3,161,370
220,000
1,503,162
88,980
489,508
929,869
0
258,498
0

2,961,948
1,388,533
1,123,057
139,849
746,414
44,840
245,327
414,477
29,149
129,249
0

5,991,162
2,931,122
3,123,890
225,000
1,730,018
63,203
512,761
927,755
45,000
129,352
88,111

0
-44,575
0
0
226,856
-25,777
23,903
-1,764
45,000
-129,146
88,111

11,575
-44,575
-37,480
5,000
226,856
-25,777
23,253
-2,114
45,000
-129,146
88,111

14,948,017

15,584,765

15,606,670

7,222,841

15,767,374

182,609

160,704

1.2%

1.0%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

51,907
19,280
175,193
467,979
67,938
20,056
137
128,053
213,960
6,121
119,397

45,890
25,150
237,469
461,055
59,080
11,100
50
119,605
203,895
1,900
119,875

78,883
25,516
248,273
470,731
54,760
11,100
50
120,421
207,345
1,900
150,962

26,147
10,320
105,746
206,900
57,517
7,748
82
86,863
90,479
130
92,981

37,155
23,700
241,605
451,473
58,180
16,400
50
130,699
203,745
5,900
118,215

-8,735
-1,450
4,136
-9,582
-900
5,300
0
11,094
-150
4,000
-1,660

-41,728
-1,816
-6,668
-19,258
3,420
5,300
0
10,278
-3,600
4,000
-32,747

1,270,022

1,285,069

1,369,941

684,914

1,287,122

2,053

-82,819

0.2%

-6.0%

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
2003
Actual

300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
315 TEMPORARY SERVICES
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
347 PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
368 INSURANCE PREMIUMS
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
377 LEGAL SETTLEMENTS AND JUDGMENTS
380 GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES
381 GRANTS TO SUPPORT ARTS
383 THIRD PARTY CONTRACTS
389 BANK CHARGES
392 DEBT SERVICE

30,437
127,420
447,161
890,362
424,711
18,713
16,356
97,663
68,811
237,290
34,386
229,644
681,364
1,441,822
157,803
157,449
2,669
295,846
1,468,917
82,455
15,577
623,111
23,067
203,203
16,014
1,687
6,552
612
1,625,000
0
12,817
74,567

2004
Original
Budget
21,050
136,072
675,635
832,135
240,500
0
1,000
79,000
104,552
203,606
21,000
158,930
790,394
1,498,265
110,350
132,360
5,000
330,214
1,575,645
63,220
9,250
149,955
16,950
204,888
8,460
1,894
0
0
1,625,000
0
5,800
60,000

2004
Revised
Budget
20,000
147,943
412,177
966,329
394,292
-4,000
15,900
91,600
106,173
213,346
18,409
229,145
715,394
1,460,215
110,350
134,431
5,000
336,133
1,613,801
78,220
9,250
308,121
16,950
204,888
8,460
1,894
0
0
1,625,000
25,000
10,300
60,000

June 30
YTD
12,977
167,297
210,323
826,739
434,654
4,878
16,160
21,665
54,806
110,302
17,887
252,043
292,354
1,197,560
99,170
60,700
0
231,358
842,641
82,462
12,417
298,816
9,549
213,922
6,112
407
0
0
1,625,000
0
0
22,068

2005
Proposed
Budget
18,650
137,598
708,085
827,856
253,000
0
1,000
56,000
100,074
193,416
17,825
155,844
796,302
1,498,415
110,950
137,588
5,000
345,798
1,573,636
60,220
6,350
149,455
16,650
201,626
9,136
1,604
0
0
1,625,000
0
5,000
60,000

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

-2,400
1,526
32,450
-4,279
12,500
0
0
-23,000
-4,478
-10,190
-3,175
-3,086
5,908
150
600
5,228
0
15,584
-2,009
-3,000
-2,900
-500
-300
-3,262
676
-290
0
0
0
0
-800
0

-1,350
-10,345
295,908
-138,473
-141,292
4,000
-14,900
-35,600
-6,099
-19,930
-584
-73,301
80,908
38,200
600
3,157
0
9,665
-40,165
-18,000
-2,900
-158,666
-300
-3,262
676
-290
0
0
0
-25,000
-5,300
0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
2003
Actual

395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

43,820

43,820

10,955

23,528

-20,292

-20,292

9,560,234

9,104,945

9,378,542

7,135,223

9,095,606

-9,339

-282,936

-0.1%

-3.0%

138,421
6,505,386
2,174,537
195,604
175,002
160,418
975,673
582,987

4,000
0
2,677,965
144,365
230,501
6,500
40,000
787,398

37,397
678,959
5,120,810
160,018
304,163
6,500
49,595
787,398

10,957
1,688,867
525,892
60,460
172,009
136
206,627
411,437

4,000
632,805
2,092,100
97,629
238,241
4,500
0
693,990

0
632,805
-585,865
-46,736
7,740
-2,000
-40,000
-93,408

-33,397
-46,154
-3,028,710
-62,389
-65,922
-2,000
-49,595
-93,408

10,908,028

3,890,729

7,144,841

3,076,385

3,763,265

-127,464

-3,381,576

-3.3%

-47.3%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
510 CENTRAL SERVICES CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
550 INTER DEPARTMENTAL CHARGES
TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

131,933
869,780
362,196

115,426
980,060
425,000

115,426
980,060
425,000

58,147
362,691
205,757

88,695
983,582
425,000

-26,731
3,522
0

-26,731
3,522
0

1,363,909

1,520,486

1,520,486

626,595

1,497,277

-23,209

-23,209

-1.5%

-1.5%

24,650

-3,609,835

0.1%

-10.3%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATI
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

46,747

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
400 LAND
405 BUILDINGS
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
425 VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT
440 INFRASTRUCTURE
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

38,050,210

31,385,994

35,020,480

18,745,957

31,410,644

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Administration
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
770 FEES FOR SERVICES
790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

43,970

0

0

-84,191

110,475

110,475

110,475

35,851

15,000

15,000

8,100

0

-15,000

-15,000

3,174,056

3,381,552

3,320,314

2,064,101

3,267,368

-114,184

-52,946

3,253,877

3,396,552

3,335,314

1,988,011

3,377,843

-18,709

42,529

988,139

1,025,460

1,025,460

525,872

1,065,792

40,332

40,332

19,578

28,490

33,490

11,692

25,887

-2,603

-7,603

2,366,722

2,486,030

2,440,792

1,366,948

2,487,360

1,330

46,568

64,760

72,840

51,840

11,391

42,090

-30,750

-9,750

-185,323

-216,268

-216,268

72,107

-243,286

-27,018

-27,018

3,253,877

3,396,552

3,335,314

1,988,011

3,377,843

-18,709

42,529

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ADMINISTRATION
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
180 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION

762,900
11,436
406
67,733
6,111
30,846
57,837
46,401
4,469

796,335
13,680
0
98,444
6,741
43,018
62,839
0
4,403

796,335
13,680
0
98,444
6,741
43,018
62,839
0
4,403

396,470
1,480
216
42,793
3,371
20,826
29,366
29,149
2,202

799,124
14,140
0
94,465
4,719
44,218
61,924
45,000
2,202

2,789
460
0
-3,979
-2,022
1,200
-915
45,000
-2,201

2,789
460
0
-3,979
-2,022
1,200
-915
45,000
-2,201

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

988,139

1,025,460

1,025,460

525,872

1,065,792

40,332

40,332

3.9%

3.9%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES
TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

7,302
2,466
3,750
1,339
802
11
104
3,804

6,300
2,750
14,000
750
0
0
1,450
3,240

6,300
2,750
14,000
5,750
0
0
1,450
3,240

4,936
1,750
3,396
95
0
54
211
1,249

3,850
2,750
14,000
750
0
0
1,297
3,240

-2,450
0
0
0
0
0
-153
0

-2,450
0
0
-5,000
0
0
-153
0

19,578

28,490

33,490

11,692

25,887

-2,603

-7,603

-9.1%

-22.7%

0
0
0
340

0
0
0
340

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES

8,159
34,128
27,284
17,151

13,250
55,800
25,000
21,580

13,250
55,800
25,000
21,580

10,500
40,860
6,040
12,072

13,250
55,800
25,000
21,920

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ADMINISTRATION
2003
Actual

312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
315 TEMPORARY SERVICES
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
347 PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
368 INSURANCE PREMIUMS
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
377 LEGAL SETTLEMENTS AND JUDGMENTS
389 BANK CHARGES
392 DEBT SERVICE
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

15,922
18,713
0
32,618
30,982
9,119
9,116
165,878
183
156,277
29,789
2,669
40,578
1,458,369
803
182
8,813
202,825
2,440
673
7,000
12,552
74,499
0

500
0
0
56,700
31,442
10,000
5,050
265,146
0
101,000
37,210
5,000
49,969
1,525,133
1,100
0
9,500
204,550
2,200
900
0
5,000
60,000
0

500
-4,000
0
54,700
31,442
5,986
3,064
190,146
0
101,000
37,210
5,000
49,969
1,562,395
1,100
0
9,500
204,550
2,200
900
0
9,500
60,000
0

0
4,878
0
28,109
12,041
2,258
1,488
73,621
0
91,228
16,874
0
31,744
797,305
250
273
425
213,922
985
16
0
0
22,029
30

500
0
0
56,700
23,192
9,175
4,050
271,054
0
101,000
37,210
5,000
58,219
1,525,133
1,100
0
9,500
201,457
2,200
900
0
5,000
60,000
0

0
0
0
0
-8,250
-825
-1,000
5,908
0
0
0
0
8,250
0
0
0
0
-3,093
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
4,000
0
2,000
-8,250
3,189
986
80,908
0
0
0
0
8,250
-37,262
0
0
0
-3,093
0
0
0
-4,500
0
0

2,366,722

2,486,030

2,440,792

1,366,948

2,487,360

1,330

46,568

0.1%

1.9%

-30,750
0

-9,750
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT

56,925
7,835

70,540
2,300

49,540
2,300

11,391
0

39,790
2,300

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ADMINISTRATION
2004
Original
Budget

2003
Actual
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT
TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

64,760

72,840

51,840

11,391

42,090

-30,750

-9,750

-42.2%

-18.8%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
510 CENTRAL SERVICES CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
580 COST POOL ALLOCATION

131,933
32,744
-350,000

115,426
18,306
-350,000

115,426
18,306
-350,000

58,147
13,960
0

88,695
18,019
-350,000

-26,731
-287
0

-26,731
-287
0

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

-185,323

-216,268

-216,268

72,107

-243,286

-27,018

-27,018

12.5%

12.5%

-18,709

42,529

-0.6%

1.3%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL ADMINISTRATION
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

3,253,877

3,396,552

3,335,314

1,988,011

3,377,843

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Park Maintenance
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
750 INTERGOVERNMENTAL

469,477

0

0

2,000

0

770 FEES FOR SERVICES

17,866

23,500

23,500

11,228

23,500

0

0

790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE

-2,412

0

0

4,366

0

0

0

8,889,795

9,921,836

9,896,546

5,538,672

9,932,252

10,416

35,706

9,374,726

9,945,336

9,920,046

5,556,266

9,955,752

10,416

35,706

5,255,342

5,749,707

5,744,707

2,677,632

5,808,994

59,287

64,287

584,849

532,560

564,560

371,050

524,843

-7,717

-39,717

2,347,068

2,276,205

2,182,915

1,919,126

2,281,522

5,317

98,607

040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

640,260

670,300

711,300

353,057

605,300

-65,000

-106,000

050 INTERNAL CHARGES

547,207

716,564

716,564

235,402

735,093

18,529

18,529

9,374,726

9,945,336

9,920,046

5,556,266

9,955,752

10,416

35,706

Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

0

0

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK MAINTENANCE
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
101 SALARIES - WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
190 SPECIAL PAY/COMPENSATION

812,820
2,683,866
290,343
275,937
574,294
33,187
151,991
300,150
132,754
0

857,403
2,913,228
430,763
200,000
661,234
35,875
201,337
322,570
127,297
0

857,403
2,913,228
430,763
195,000
661,234
35,875
201,337
322,570
127,297
0

411,424
1,358,531
116,206
126,839
334,156
18,288
100,767
147,774
63,649
0

845,758
2,868,652
425,653
200,000
759,341
25,113
211,572
323,199
63,647
86,060

-11,645
-44,576
-5,110
0
98,107
-10,762
10,235
629
-63,650
86,060

-11,645
-44,576
-5,110
5,000
98,107
-10,762
10,235
629
-63,650
86,060

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

5,255,342

5,749,707

5,744,707

2,677,632

5,808,994

59,287

64,287

1.0%

1.1%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

7,825
3,362
44,308
370,594
47,934
6,481
21
44,380
29,322
0
30,621

5,550
6,600
35,850
336,985
45,950
3,250
0
31,600
28,900
0
37,875

5,550
6,600
33,850
345,985
39,390
3,250
0
31,600
31,900
0
66,435

4,176
2,408
28,296
182,510
40,382
668
0
27,975
34,755
0
49,880

5,550
6,600
34,850
333,718
44,700
3,050
0
32,700
28,600
0
35,075

0
0
-1,000
-3,267
-1,250
-200
0
1,100
-300
0
-2,800

0
0
1,000
-12,267
5,310
-200
0
1,100
-3,300
0
-31,360

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

584,849

532,560

564,560

371,050

524,843

-7,717

-39,717

-1.4%

-7.0%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK MAINTENANCE
2004
Original
Budget

2003
Actual
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
380 GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES
389 BANK CHARGES
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

5,531
65,820
30,779
194,496
0
20,766
8,788
39,937
1,654
3,996
77,339
1,333,659
317
6,157
120,917
3,697
59,462
546
362,420
9,750
170
0
0
0
867

3,400
60,000
20,110
219,990
1,000
19,000
11,250
23,400
3,050
7,000
78,565
1,498,265
1,000
11,400
120,020
250
50,000
3,050
128,955
14,950
1,250
200
0
0
100

3,400
60,000
20,110
187,750
1,000
19,000
11,250
25,400
3,050
7,000
78,565
1,460,215
1,000
11,400
120,020
250
50,000
3,050
103,955
14,950
1,250
200
0
0
100

1,320
59,000
47,245
209,804
1,260
8,568
5,138
17,002
354
3,450
33,691
1,196,302
53
4,367
123,390
1,781
74,332
1,522
123,999
4,441
1,615
50
0
0
442

3,300
60,000
19,810
219,490
1,000
19,000
10,450
23,500
2,650
6,700
78,565
1,498,265
1,000
11,300
127,137
250
51,600
2,050
128,955
14,950
1,250
200
0
0
100

-100
0
-300
-500
0
0
-800
100
-400
-300
0
0
0
-100
7,117
0
1,600
-1,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

-100
0
-300
31,740
0
0
-800
-1,900
-400
-300
0
38,050
0
-100
7,117
0
1,600
-1,000
25,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

2,347,068

2,276,205

2,182,915

1,919,126

2,281,522

5,317

98,607

0.2%

4.5%

0

-6,500

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
400 LAND

0

0

6,500

6,422

0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK MAINTENANCE
2003
Actual

405 BUILDINGS
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
425 VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT
TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

0
28,837
6,846
88,482
160,418
355,676

0
23,500
9,300
83,000
6,500
548,000

0
59,000
9,300
82,000
6,500
548,000

3,905
19,163
1,925
75,343
136
246,162

0
22,500
6,800
86,500
4,500
485,000

0
-1,000
-2,500
3,500
-2,000
-63,000

0
-36,500
-2,500
4,500
-2,000
-63,000

640,260

670,300

711,300

353,057

605,300

-65,000

-106,000

-9.7%

-14.9%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
550 INTER DEPARTMENTAL CHARGES

597,207
-50,000

716,564
0

716,564
0

235,402
0

735,093
0

18,529
0

18,529
0

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

547,207

716,564

716,564

235,402

735,093

18,529

18,529

2.6%

2.6%

10,416

35,706

0.1%

0.4%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL PARK MAINTENANCE
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

9,374,726

9,945,336

9,920,046

5,556,266

9,955,752

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Sports and Special Revenue Facilities
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

2005
Proposed
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
730 CHARGES FOR SERVICES
760 SALE AND LEASE OF PROPERTY

5,755

800

800

400

800

0

0

19,377

24,522

24,522

12,321

24,522

0

0

1,260,725

1,442,045

1,442,045

584,589

1,442,045

0

0

38,027

37,000

37,000

36,428

37,000

0

0

2,608,854

2,567,015

2,563,515

1,052,232

2,521,644

-45,371

-41,871

3,932,737

4,071,382

4,067,882

1,685,970

4,026,011

-45,371

-41,871

3,077,957

3,113,185

3,113,185

1,189,610

3,090,985

-22,200

-22,200

020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

314,043

337,641

337,641

129,248

340,042

2,401

2,401

030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

401,384

459,150

455,650

303,747

454,379

-4,771

-1,271

040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

121,922

141,828

141,828

58,271

126,770

-15,058

-15,058

17,432

19,578

19,578

5,094

13,835

-5,743

-5,743

3,932,737

4,071,382

4,067,882

1,685,970

4,026,011

-45,371

-41,871

770 FEES FOR SERVICES
790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources
Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES

050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITIES
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
190 SPECIAL PAY/COMPENSATION

776,951
1,906,726
341
90,888
6,778
33,351
203,388
59,533
0

739,878
1,957,875
0
101,856
7,307
41,947
208,373
55,950
0

724,303
1,973,450
0
101,856
7,307
41,947
208,373
55,950
0

378,240
625,259
1,422
54,365
3,654
23,001
75,694
27,975
0

739,877
1,957,519
0
108,890
6,008
45,979
203,953
28,509
250

-1
-356
0
7,034
-1,299
4,032
-4,420
-27,441
250

15,574
-15,931
0
7,034
-1,299
4,032
-4,420
-27,441
250

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

3,077,957

3,113,185

3,113,185

1,189,610

3,090,985

-22,200

-22,200

-0.7%

-0.7%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

8,663
2,325
46,250
19,289
4,234
2,745
55
38,589
174,324
342
17,225

10,260
4,800
64,306
21,660
2,780
1,000
50
37,035
174,850
0
20,900

10,260
4,800
64,306
21,660
2,780
1,000
50
37,035
174,850
0
20,900

3,135
1,418
15,070
8,676
7,705
1,412
28
28,084
54,574
0
9,144

6,775
3,350
62,375
18,680
3,580
4,500
50
45,732
175,000
0
20,000

-3,485
-1,450
-1,931
-2,980
800
3,500
0
8,697
150
0
-900

-3,485
-1,450
-1,931
-2,980
800
3,500
0
8,697
150
0
-900

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

314,043

337,641

337,641

129,248

340,042

2,401

2,401

0.7%

0.7%

-2,300

-1,250

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

4,216

3,300

2,250

0

1,000

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITIES
2003
Actual

303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
389 BANK CHARGES
392 DEBT SERVICE
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

3,983
30
23,850
38,400
883
7,062
54,012
6,543
56,173
104,786
1,147
620
26,800
715
364
674
393
8,854
4,404
11,325
148
265
4
45,733

7,000
0
75,100
55,000
0
13,452
42,902
4,400
60,000
105,972
0
1,500
23,250
2,975
0
2,420
3,200
8,000
2,000
3,800
359
800
0
43,720

7,000
0
75,100
55,000
0
12,952
40,452
4,400
60,500
105,972
0
1,500
23,250
2,975
0
2,420
3,200
8,000
2,000
3,800
359
800
0
43,720

11,815
6,950
71,247
56,400
7
4,137
21,777
3,007
52,103
45,330
0
65
8,024
121
982
2,277
0
6,855
1,360
859
0
0
17
10,414

7,000
2,750
88,892
55,000
1,000
9,399
41,862
900
66,690
105,972
150
3,600
28,030
3,192
0
1,970
1,300
7,500
1,700
3,000
69
0
0
23,403

0
2,750
13,792
0
1,000
-4,053
-1,040
-3,500
6,690
0
150
2,100
4,780
217
0
-450
-1,900
-500
-300
-800
-290
-800
0
-20,317

0
2,750
13,792
0
1,000
-3,553
1,410
-3,500
6,190
0
150
2,100
4,780
217
0
-450
-1,900
-500
-300
-800
-290
-800
0
-20,317

401,384

459,150

455,650

303,747

454,379

-4,771

-1,271

-1.0%

-0.3%

15,135
-4,025

38,100
-26,990

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT

21,277
49,393

51,965
23,275

29,000
46,240

22,407
15,248

67,100
19,250

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITIES
2003
Actual

420 EQUIPMENT
425 VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT
TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

5,913
0
45,338

21,180
0
45,408

21,180
0
45,408

13,331
0
7,285

25,420
0
15,000

4,240
0
-30,408

4,240
0
-30,408

121,922

141,828

141,828

58,271

126,770

-15,058

-15,058

-10.6%

-10.6%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES

17,432

19,578

19,578

5,094

13,835

-5,743

-5,743

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

17,432

19,578

19,578

5,094

13,835

-5,743

-5,743

-29.3%

-29.3%

-45,371

-41,871

-1.1%

-1.0%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL SPORTS AND SPECIAL REVENUE FACILITI
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

3,932,737

4,071,382

4,067,882

1,685,970

4,026,011

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Community Recreation
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
750 INTERGOVERNMENTAL

310,200

0

307,101

68,479

0

0

770 FEES FOR SERVICES

735,651

790,530

790,530

436,184

790,530

0

0

25,010

0

35,417

5,395

0

0

-35,417

4,933,195

4,889,784

4,877,522

3,740,094

4,950,210

60,426

72,688

6,004,056

5,680,314

6,010,570

4,250,152

5,740,740

60,426

-269,830

2,774,163

2,740,118

2,762,023

1,369,132

2,806,109

65,991

44,086

172,822

176,248

223,214

112,484

177,570

1,322

-45,644

2,984,656

2,641,360

2,895,277

2,731,670

2,635,388

-5,972

-259,889

040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

50,202

102,770

110,238

28,244

102,620

-150

-7,618

050 INTERNAL CHARGES

22,213

19,818

19,818

8,623

19,053

-765

-765

6,004,056

5,680,314

6,010,570

4,250,152

5,740,740

60,426

-269,830

790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

-307,101

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
COMMUNITY RECREATION
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION

1,525,045
736,886
3,857
220,490
15,673
66,916
168,392
36,903

1,568,640
586,960
0
274,189
18,552
90,884
164,669
36,224

1,568,640
608,865
0
274,189
18,552
90,884
164,669
36,224

770,895
309,287
0
137,312
9,276
44,633
79,618
18,112

1,568,424
589,442
0
356,043
13,008
95,536
165,467
18,189

-216
2,482
0
81,854
-5,544
4,652
798
-18,035

-216
-19,423
0
81,854
-5,544
4,652
798
-18,035

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

2,774,163

2,740,118

2,762,023

1,369,132

2,806,109

65,991

44,086

2.4%

1.6%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES
TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

14,842
4,611
69,665
7,353
1,583
2
39
31,942
85
42,702

9,630
6,150
90,588
3,700
2,700
0
0
32,220
0
31,260

42,623
6,516
100,340
4,122
2,790
0
0
33,036
0
33,787

8,563
2,572
50,277
5,213
1,134
0
0
23,240
30
21,455

8,980
6,150
97,655
565
2,250
0
0
32,170
0
29,800

-650
0
7,067
-3,135
-450
0
0
-50
0
-1,460

-33,643
-366
-2,685
-3,557
-540
0
0
-866
0
-3,987

172,822

176,248

223,214

112,484

177,570

1,322

-45,644

0.8%

-20.4%

0
1,250
0

0
1,250
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE

158
5,498
372

0
0
0

0
0
0

104
29,275
0

0
1,250
0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
COMMUNITY RECREATION
2003
Actual

309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
371 MEMBERSHIPS
380 GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES
381 GRANTS TO SUPPORT ARTS
383 THIRD PARTY CONTRACTS
389 BANK CHARGES
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

515,018
300,831
490
6,348
59,210
4,749
150,850
201,021
260
38,257
50,398
0
4,488
14,407
2,014
4,130
399
612
1,625,000
0
0
147

379,090
170,000
0
4,850
58,050
2,300
76,100
203,308
1,500
22,800
57,000
37,262
1,100
3,000
0
0
0
0
1,625,000
0
0
0

512,431
222,333
0
5,631
58,050
3,723
147,801
203,308
1,500
24,400
62,000
0
1,100
3,000
0
0
0
0
1,625,000
25,000
0
0

401,595
378,237
490
4,149
24,728
7,284
89,837
83,938
6,459
12,771
49,106
0
1,321
9,280
2,427
2,970
2,629
0
1,625,000
0
0
69

364,879
179,000
0
5,275
57,050
3,900
70,124
203,308
2,500
23,348
57,000
37,253
1,000
3,000
0
0
1,476
0
1,625,000
0
0
25

-14,211
9,000
0
425
-1,000
1,600
-5,976
0
1,000
548
0
-9
-100
0
0
0
1,476
0
0
0
0
25

-147,552
-43,333
0
-356
-1,000
177
-77,677
0
1,000
-1,052
-5,000
37,253
-100
0
0
0
1,476
0
0
-25,000
0
25

2,984,656

2,641,360

2,895,277

2,731,670

2,635,388

-5,972

-259,889

-0.2%

-9.0%

-150
0
0

-150
-7,468
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT

30,484
17,301
2,417

5,750
97,020
0

5,750
104,488
0

6,811
21,432
0

5,600
97,020
0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
COMMUNITY RECREATION
2003
Actual

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

50,202

2004
Original
Budget
102,770

2004
Revised
Budget
110,238

June 30
YTD
28,244

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

102,620

-150

-7,618

-0.1%

-6.9%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES

22,213

19,818

19,818

8,623

19,053

-765

-765

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

22,213

19,818

19,818

8,623

19,053

-765

-765

-3.9%

-3.9%

60,426

-269,830

1.1%

-4.5%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL COMMUNITY RECREATION
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

6,004,056

5,680,314

6,010,570

4,250,152

5,740,740

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Environmental and Interpretive Services
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

95,000

0

0

95,000

0

0

0

Resources
750 INTERGOVERNMENTAL
760 SALE AND LEASE OF PROPERTY

225,503

201,700

201,700

123,960

201,700

0

0

770 FEES FOR SERVICES

859,319

1,065,500

1,065,500

429,615

998,000

-67,500

-67,500

27,377

35,000

130,000

5,208

35,000

0

-95,000

101,000

-37,197

-31,738

85,709

49,250

86,447

80,988

1,308,199

1,265,003

1,365,462

739,492

1,283,950

18,947

-81,512

945,192

967,894

967,894

483,288

994,192

26,298

26,298

63,591

60,705

60,705

26,134

59,555

-1,150

-1,150

282,085

195,301

295,760

212,893

193,801

-1,500

-101,959

17,138

21,501

21,501

7,428

17,940

-3,561

-3,561

192

19,602

19,602

9,749

18,462

-1,140

-1,140

1,308,199

1,265,003

1,365,462

739,492

1,283,950

18,947

-81,512

790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources
Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SERVICES
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
101 SALARIES - WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
190 SPECIAL PAY/COMPENSATION

531,686
33,474
175,857
2,694
102,226
5,529
25,656
55,134
12,936
0

560,271
62,469
109,112
0
127,739
7,062
32,651
55,922
12,668
0

560,271
62,469
109,112
0
127,739
7,062
32,651
55,922
12,668
0

282,414
30,002
56,230
1,694
58,646
3,531
16,929
27,508
6,334
0

561,090
62,470
111,635
0
150,534
4,945
36,321
59,059
6,335
1,801

819
1
2,523
0
22,795
-2,117
3,670
3,137
-6,333
1,801

819
1
2,523
0
22,795
-2,117
3,670
3,137
-6,333
1,801

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

945,192

967,894

967,894

483,288

994,192

26,298

26,298

2.7%

2.7%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

7,241
5,595
6,358
15,822
1,516
10,123
0
10,015
2,529
0
4,392

7,750
2,600
14,650
8,610
3,700
5,550
0
11,900
145
100
5,700

7,750
2,600
14,650
8,610
3,700
5,550
0
11,900
145
100
5,700

3,872
1,244
3,547
5,292
961
5,627
0
5,490
39
0
62

6,600
2,600
14,650
8,610
3,700
5,550
0
11,900
145
100
5,700

-1,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

-1,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

63,591

60,705

60,705

26,134

59,555

-1,150

-1,150

-1.9%

-1.9%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SERVICES
2003
Actual

300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
377 LEGAL SETTLEMENTS AND JUDGMENTS
389 BANK CHARGES
392 DEBT SERVICE
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

194
2,775
248
47,965
69,558
65
4,826
28,342
10,977
6,648
74,054
0
0
31,181
50
175
1,263
50
737
2,685
434
307
-448
0
0

600
0
9,000
55,200
0
0
4,850
26,495
300
7,700
75,211
0
0
13,000
500
0
1,000
0
500
0
560
385
0
0
0

600
0
8,000
55,200
101,459
0
4,850
26,495
300
7,700
75,211
0
0
13,000
500
0
1,000
0
500
0
560
385
0
0
0

944
1,230
0
38,588
0
0
3,304
13,909
4,984
105,110
31,019
0
15
9,699
311
68
530
1,273
826
741
0
341
0
0
0

600
0
9,000
55,200
0
0
4,850
26,495
300
6,200
75,211
0
0
13,000
500
0
1,000
0
500
0
560
385
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-1,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
1,000
0
-101,459
0
0
0
0
-1,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

282,085

195,301

295,760

212,893

193,801

-1,500

-101,959

-0.8%

-34.5%

0

0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
410 IMPROVEMENTS

795

0

0

185

0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SERVICES
2003
Actual

415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

14,094
2,249

12,500
9,001

12,500
9,001

6,415
828

8,939
9,001

-3,561
0

-3,561
0

17,138

21,501

21,501

7,428

17,940

-3,561

-3,561

-16.6%

-16.6%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES

192

19,602

19,602

9,749

18,462

-1,140

-1,140

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

192

19,602

19,602

9,749

18,462

-1,140

-1,140

-5.8%

-5.8%

18,947

-81,512

1.5%

-6.0%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND INTERPRETIVE SE
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

1,308,199

1,265,003

1,365,462

739,492

1,283,950

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Greenways
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

2005
Proposed
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
760 SALE AND LEASE OF PROPERTY
790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

15,755

9,000

9,000

5,967

9,000

0

0

2,529

0

0

7

0

0

0

805,057

816,914

816,914

410,941

820,228

3,314

3,314

823,342

825,914

825,914

416,915

829,228

3,314

3,314

210,755

222,482

222,482

108,970

225,579

3,097

3,097

23,765

23,900

23,900

6,704

23,900

0

0

163,478

138,977

138,977

92,455

138,898

-79

-79

6,565

12,500

12,500

148

12,500

0

0

418,779

428,055

428,055

208,637

428,351

296

296

823,342

825,914

825,914

416,915

829,228

3,314

3,314

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GREENWAYS
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION

149,607
17,582
143
22,014
1,347
6,693
12,415
954

171,596
0
0
25,688
1,605
9,189
13,389
1,015

171,596
0
0
25,688
1,605
9,189
13,389
1,015

81,210
2,042
0
13,919
803
4,371
6,118
508

171,596
0
0
29,278
1,124
9,438
14,142
0

0
0
0
3,590
-481
249
753
-1,015

0
0
0
3,590
-481
249
753
-1,015

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

210,755

222,482

222,482

108,970

225,579

3,097

3,097

1.4%

1.4%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
226 VEHICLE AND AVIATION FUELS
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

1,481
240
1,497
10,795
704
48
11
2,360
4,100
0
2,528

350
1,050
4,250
12,900
950
0
0
3,600
0
0
800

350
1,050
4,250
12,900
950
0
0
3,600
0
0
800

353
58
220
2,248
0
0
0
1,394
631
0
1,800

350
1,050
4,250
12,900
950
0
0
3,600
0
0
800

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

23,765

23,900

23,900

6,704

23,900

0

0

----%

----%

0
0

0
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES

9,787
3,655

0
2,000

0
2,000

0
6,550

0
2,000

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GREENWAYS
2003
Actual

306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
368 INSURANCE PREMIUMS
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

52,371
8,260
8,500
733
8,321
541
1,469
16,352
7,248
0
12,428
30,024
113
2,578
0
0
214
178
705
0
0

21,525
10,850
0
10,400
6,750
900
1,950
17,444
0
50
18,650
45,250
0
300
0
2,500
0
158
200
50
0

21,525
10,850
0
10,400
6,750
900
1,950
17,444
0
50
18,650
45,250
0
300
0
2,500
0
158
200
50
0

64,515
5,461
0
1,120
3,810
0
20
6,796
0
0
2,758
685
55
197
0
450
38
0
0
0
0

21,525
10,850
0
10,400
6,750
900
1,950
17,444
0
50
18,650
45,250
0
300
0
2,500
0
79
200
50
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-79
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
-79
0
0
0

163,478

138,977

138,977

92,455

138,898

-79

-79

-0.1%

-0.1%

0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
440 INFRASTRUCTURE
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT

400
3,275
2,865
0
25

2,500
2,500
1,500
0
6,000

2,500
2,500
1,500
0
6,000

0
106
42
0
0

2,500
2,500
1,500
0
6,000

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GREENWAYS
2003
Actual

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

6,565

2004
Original
Budget
12,500

2004
Revised
Budget
12,500

June 30
YTD
148

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

12,500

0

0

----%

----%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
550 INTER DEPARTMENTAL CHARGES

6,583
412,196

3,055
425,000

3,055
425,000

2,881
205,757

3,351
425,000

296
0

296
0

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

418,779

428,055

428,055

208,637

428,351

296

296

0.1%

0.1%

3,314

3,314

0.4%

0.4%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL GREENWAYS
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

823,342

825,914

825,914

416,915

829,228

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Golf
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

Resources
770 FEES FOR SERVICES
790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

1,070,364
21,142
-169,565

1,314,830
350
-76,626

1,314,830
150,350
523,374

391,073
1,506
-65,993

1,321,290
350
-85,746

6,460
0
-9,120

6,460
-150,000
-609,120

Total Resources

921,941

1,238,554

1,988,554

326,585

1,235,894

-2,660

-752,660

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050 INTERNAL CHARGES

104,914
1,842
170,457
292,411
352,317

108,064
14,400
114,535
648,500
353,055

108,064
14,400
130,635
1,382,400
353,055

53,997
3,195
70,055
198,500
839

109,260
13,200
122,871
637,055
353,508

1,196
-1,200
8,336
-11,445
453

1,196
-1,200
-7,764
-745,345
453

Total Requirements

921,941

1,238,554

1,988,554

326,585

1,235,894

-2,660

-752,660

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GOLF
2003
Actual

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
110 SALARIES - PART TIME & TEMPORARY
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

60,555
23,538
10,233
547
3,364
6,289
387

59,322
25,500
11,096
603
4,542
6,619
382

59,322
25,500
11,096
603
4,542
6,619
382

29,773
12,554
5,786
302
2,222
3,169
191

59,322
25,500
12,671
422
4,665
6,489
191

0
0
1,575
-181
123
-130
-191

0
0
1,575
-181
123
-130
-191

104,914

108,064

108,064

53,997

109,260

1,196

1,196

1.1%

1.1%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES
TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

852
0
990
0
0
0

100
100
10,000
200
0
4,000

100
100
10,000
200
0
4,000

0
87
2,813
0
295
0

100
100
10,000
0
0
3,000

0
0
0
-200
0
-1,000

0
0
0
-200
0
-1,000

1,842

14,400

14,400

3,195

13,200

-1,200

-1,200

-8.3%

-8.3%

276
30,000
3,300
3,500
0
-24,000
-50
0

276
30,000
-12,800
3,500
0
-24,000
-50
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES

9,886
48,529
14,473
0
2,040
53,426
121
1,821

8,772
0
2,700
15,000
0
60,000
350
2,222

8,772
0
18,800
15,000
0
60,000
350
2,222

5,117
35,372
21,807
0
0
0
145
813

9,048
30,000
6,000
18,500
0
36,000
300
2,222

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GOLF
2003
Actual

329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
368 INSURANCE PREMIUMS
371 MEMBERSHIPS
392 DEBT SERVICE
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

34
450
5,667
21,831
315
7,286
0
4,209
5
0
200
100
64

50
130
5,481
0
5,000
400
0
13,000
300
500
180
450
0

50
130
5,481
0
5,000
400
0
13,000
300
500
180
450
0

0
35
2,266
0
1,350
630
9
2,196
0
295
0
0
22

0
130
5,481
0
2,500
400
0
11,000
250
500
90
450
0

-50
0
0
0
-2,500
0
0
-2,000
-50
0
-90
0
0

-50
0
0
0
-2,500
0
0
-2,000
-50
0
-90
0
0

170,457

114,535

130,635

70,055

122,871

8,336

-7,764

7.3%

-5.9%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
405 BUILDINGS
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
425 VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT
440 INFRASTRUCTURE

61,605
22,185
1,162
0
0
207,460

0
600,000
8,500
0
0
40,000

0
1,333,900
8,500
0
0
40,000

0
0
0
0
0
198,500

632,805
0
4,250
0
0
0

632,805
-600,000
-4,250
0
0
-40,000

632,805
-1,333,900
-4,250
0
0
-40,000

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

292,411

648,500

1,382,400

198,500

637,055

-11,445

-745,345

-1.8%

-53.9%

453
0

453
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES
580 COST POOL ALLOCATION

2,317
350,000

3,055
350,000

3,055
350,000

839
0

3,508
350,000

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
GOLF
2003
Actual

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

352,317

2004
Original
Budget
353,055

2004
Revised
Budget
353,055

June 30
YTD
839

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

353,508

453

453

0.1%

0.1%

-2,660

-752,660

-0.2%

-37.8%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL GOLF
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

921,941

1,238,554

1,988,554

326,585

1,235,894

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Resource Development
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
750 INTERGOVERNMENTAL
790 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance
Total Resources

85,005

30,000

238,214

26,425

30,000

0

-208,214

311,482

0

0

72,221

0

0

0

10,483,549

3,320,662

5,656,247

2,898,771

3,325,599

4,937

-2,330,648

10,880,036

3,350,662

5,894,461

2,997,417

3,355,599

4,937

-2,538,862

380,540

389,727

394,727

195,077

393,258

3,531

-1,469

48,987

80,575

81,481

8,628

79,575

-1,000

-1,906

749,527

698,870

744,019

372,658

698,870

0

-45,149

9,693,275

2,173,990

4,666,734

2,414,602

2,172,490

-1,500

-2,494,244

7,708

7,500

7,500

6,452

11,406

3,906

3,906

10,880,036

3,350,662

5,894,461

2,997,417

3,355,599

4,937

-2,538,862

Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES
020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION

307,459
0
27,900
2,329
12,310
23,144
7,398

303,938
0
36,207
2,247
16,503
24,049
6,783

307,938
0
36,207
2,247
17,153
24,399
6,783

154,985
0
15,944
1,124
8,137
11,496
3,392

312,192
0
35,050
1,572
17,171
23,883
3,391

8,254
0
-1,157
-675
668
-166
-3,392

4,254
0
-1,157
-675
18
-516
-3,392

TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

380,540

389,727

394,727

195,077

393,258

3,531

-1,469

0.9%

-0.4%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
235 CHEMICAL AND LAB SUPPLIES
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

1,099
178
809
42,117
576
127
3,600
482

3,800
600
225
75,050
300
0
0
600

3,800
600
3,277
70,304
2,450
0
450
600

246
494
2,045
2,780
2,613
0
450
0

2,800
600
225
75,050
300
0
0
600

-1,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

-1,000
0
-3,052
4,746
-2,150
0
-450
0

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

48,987

80,575

81,481

8,628

79,575

-1,000

-1,906

-1.2%

-2.3%

0
0
0
0
0
0

0
-11,871
262,458
-16,993
-14,900
-12,600

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
318 BOARDING, DEMOLITION AND RELOCATION
321 WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

2,345
0
287,268
16,718
14,251
13,598

0
0
600,000
8,025
0
0

0
11,871
337,542
25,018
14,900
12,600

0
13,450
50,201
23,418
14,900
12,600

0
0
600,000
8,025
0
0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
2003
Actual

323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
338 INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
341 ADVERTISING
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
350 FACILITY LEASE AND RENTALS
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

7,818
5,058
590
445
22,019
77,755
14
2,540
53,165
0
4,232
239,830
1,884

2,500
6,195
0
0
24,650
0
300
2,700
54,500
0
0
0
0

5,840
16,385
0
0
24,650
0
300
3,171
55,419
38,156
15,000
183,166
0

8,576
11,883
0
0
9,651
1,258
0
4,067
25,993
38,156
94
158,410
0

2,500
6,195
0
0
24,650
0
300
2,700
54,500
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

-3,340
-10,190
0
0
0
0
0
-471
-919
-38,156
-15,000
-183,166
0

749,527

698,870

744,019

372,658

698,870

0

-45,149

----%

-6.1%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
400 LAND
405 BUILDINGS
410 IMPROVEMENTS
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
440 INFRASTRUCTURE
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT

138,421
6,443,782
2,101,043
28,478
45,527
768,213
167,810

4,000
0
2,000,000
12,000
0
0
157,990

30,897
678,959
3,696,410
25,688
67,194
9,595
157,990

4,535
1,684,962
484,137
18,204
56,647
8,127
157,990

4,000
0
2,000,000
10,500
0
0
157,990

0
0
0
-1,500
0
0
0

-26,897
-678,959
-1,696,410
-15,188
-67,194
-9,595
0

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

9,693,275

2,173,990

4,666,734

2,414,602

2,172,490

-1,500

-2,494,244

-0.1%

-53.4%

3,906

3,906

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES

7,708

7,500

7,500

6,452

11,406

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
2003
Actual

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

7,708

2004
Original
Budget
7,500

2004
Revised
Budget
7,500

June 30
YTD
6,452

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

11,406

3,906

3,906

52.1%

52.1%

4,937

-2,538,862

0.1%

-43.1%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
TOTAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

10,880,036

3,350,662

5,894,461

2,997,417

3,355,599

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
Department of Parks and Recreation
Park Rangers
Current Year Appropriations
Resources and Requirements
2003
Actual

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

Jun 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 To 2004
Original
Difference

2005 To 2004
Revised
Difference

Resources
Taxes, Non-Dept. Rev., & Fund Balance

1,551,296

1,612,277

1,612,277

785,150

1,605,628

-6,649

-6,649

1,551,296

1,612,277

1,612,277

785,150

1,605,628

-6,649

-6,649

1,211,015

1,268,128

1,268,128

619,264

1,273,206

5,078

5,078

020 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

40,545

30,550

30,550

15,780

42,550

12,000

12,000

030 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

94,858

94,517

94,517

65,671

82,517

-12,000

-12,000

040 PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

21,494

46,500

46,500

4,745

46,500

0

0

183,384

172,582

172,582

79,691

160,855

-11,727

-11,727

1,551,296

1,612,277

1,612,277

785,150

1,605,628

-6,649

-6,649

Total Resources
Requirements
010 PERSONAL SERVICES

050 INTERNAL CHARGES
Total Requirements

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK RANGERS
2003
Actual

CHARACTER 010 - PERSONAL SERVICES
100 SALARIES - BI-WEEKLY
120 OVERTIME
130 GROUP INSURANCE
140 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
160 PENSION PLANS
170 SOCIAL SECURITY
185 WORKER'S COMPENSATION
TOTAL PERSONAL SERVICES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

911,696
25,897
145,287
8,148
37,526
68,182
14,280

933,779
25,000
166,709
8,988
48,787
71,089
13,776

933,779
25,000
166,709
8,988
48,787
71,089
13,776

456,538
9,677
83,492
4,494
24,441
33,733
6,888

933,779
25,000
183,747
6,292
47,861
69,639
6,888

0
0
17,038
-2,696
-926
-1,450
-6,888

0
0
17,038
-2,696
-926
-1,450
-6,888

1,211,015

1,268,128

1,268,128

619,264

1,273,206

5,078

5,078

0.4%

0.4%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 020 - MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
200 GENERAL OFFICE SUPPLIES
205 COMPUTER SUPPLIES
210 MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
215 BUILDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
220 REPAIR PARTS, TOOLS AND ACCESSORIES
225 GARAGE AND MOTOR SUPPLIES
230 INSTITUTIONAL, MEDICAL & FOOD SUPPLIES
240 ARSENAL SUPPLIES AND TOOLS
245 UNIFORM AND PERSONAL SUPPLIES

2,602
504
1,565
669
10,591
657
535
5,779
17,644

2,150
500
3,600
1,200
2,700
1,300
1,800
1,800
15,500

2,150
500
3,600
1,200
2,700
1,300
1,800
1,800
15,500

866
290
82
85
4,426
41
469
130
9,391

2,150
500
3,600
1,200
2,700
3,300
3,300
5,800
20,000

0
0
0
0
0
2,000
1,500
4,000
4,500

0
0
0
0
0
2,000
1,500
4,000
4,500

TOTAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

40,545

30,550

30,550

15,780

42,550

12,000

12,000

39.3%

39.3%

0
0
0
-7,000
0

0
0
0
-7,000
0

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 030 - OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
300 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
303 CONSULTING SERVICES
306 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE
309 TECHNICAL SERVICES
312 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS

49
1,675
280
52,431
0

500
2,500
0
59,600
0

500
2,500
0
59,600
0

109
0
0
42,746
17

500
2,500
0
52,600
0

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK RANGERS
2003
Actual

323 POSTAGE AND SHIPPING
326 COMMUNICATION SERVICES
329 TRAVEL AND MILEAGE
332 INSTRUCTION AND TUITION
335 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
344 PRINTING AND COPYING CHARGES
353 UTILITIES
356 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL
362 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
365 VEHICLE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT RENT
371 MEMBERSHIPS
374 SUBSCRIPTIONS
395 OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES AND CHARGES

2004
Original
Budget

2004
Revised
Budget

June 30
YTD

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

497
9,608
179
497
14,247
3,010
1,991
8,950
0
443
0
442
560
0

200
6,150
0
1,000
14,617
2,950
0
7,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

200
6,150
0
1,000
14,617
2,950
0
7,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

128
4,338
0
0
6,041
1,510
2,099
3,462
68
5,129
0
24
0
0

200
6,150
0
0
14,617
2,950
0
3,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
-1,000
0
0
0
-4,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
-1,000
0
0
0
-4,000
0
0
0
0
0
0

94,858

94,517

94,517

65,671

82,517

-12,000

-12,000

-12.7%

-12.7%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 040 - PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT
415 FURNISHINGS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
420 EQUIPMENT
445 LEASE AND RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT

4,945
4,829
11,721

0
16,500
30,000

0
16,500
30,000

359
4,386
0

0
16,500
30,000

0
0
0

0
0
0

TOTAL PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

21,494

46,500

46,500

4,745

46,500

0

0

----%

----%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE
CHARACTER 050 - INTERNAL CHARGES
520 FLEET SERVICES CHARGES

183,384

172,582

172,582

79,691

160,855

-11,727

-11,727

TOTAL INTERNAL CHARGES

183,384

172,582

172,582

79,691

160,855

-11,727

-11,727

-6.8%

-6.8%

PERCENTAGE CHANGE

City of Indianapolis

2005 Annual Budget
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK RANGERS
2003
Actual

TOTAL PARK RANGERS
PERCENTAGE CHANGE

1,551,296

2004
Original
Budget
1,612,277

2004
Revised
Budget
1,612,277

June 30
YTD
785,150

2005
Proposed
Budget

2005 to 2004
Original
Difference

2005 to 2004
Revised
Difference

1,605,628

-6,649

-6,649

-0.4%

-0.4%



 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 
 ======================== Indianapolis ======================== Democratic ======================== 

Implementation and Action Plan
Where flowers bloom so does hope.
– Lady Bird Johnson

2008 FFA Tree Planting
at Ellenberger Park
2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

177

Implementation and Action Plan
INTRODUCTION

It is also recognized that there are a number of actions
that have become a part of everyday business for
Indy Parks, but that are of sufficient importance to
be included in an Ongoing list. This list is not to
be viewed as a list of action items, but rather as a
reminder of the public's wishes for continued success.

A comprehensive park plan has many different
purposes. Among these purposes is the identification
of specific actions to be taken to address identified
needs. These actions should be accompanied by
a timeline for completion and designation of a
responsible party. This section of the planning
document is referred to by many titles, such as
implementation or action plan.
ACTION PLAN
The following spreadsheet includes the actions
developed by this planning process. These actions
apply to all divisions of Indy Parks and are planned
for the years 2009 to 2014. These actions have grown
from the Identified Needs section of this document,
and are based on the opinions and ideas detailed in
the Public Participation section.

The time line in the specific Action Plan is established
as guidance for each action with all resources, constraints and opportunities being equal. The donation
of monies for specific causes, availability of grants
with specific requirements or the changing interests
of the citizens of Indianapolis-Marion County can
change this initial prioritization. The alteration of the
time line must be allowed and it is clearly the responsibility of Department leadership. The alterations,
however, should not stray from the vision and mission
of Indy Parks.

An effort was made to select Action Plan items that
will be truly strategic in nature. It is the desire of
parks' staff to include Actions that will target specific
tasks or areas of the Department and improve the
delivery of services.
Evaluation
Recognizing that not all strategies and actions
proposed in this plan can anticipate the future, actual
costs, or changing opportunities that may present
themselves, the Action Plan is the recommended
Plan to follow for Indy Parks, its Board and other
supporting committees and Departments that work
with Indy Parks.

Southeastway Park
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT LIST

Priorities
The actions steps that follow are organized under
six major headings. Several of these are repeated
from the previous plan, while several others reflect
community input and administration priorities. These
are:
Public Safety
Maintenance
New Amenities & Uses
Evaluate & Upgrage Outdated Infrasturcture
Increasing Green Space & Greenways
Green Initiatives.

178

Following the Action Plan is a seven page list of Indy
Parks' planned capital projects over the next five
years. The 2009 list is active, with many projects
underway. The 2010-2014 lists are less specific.
Final decisions will be made about which projects to
pursue after the first of 2009, and each following year.
This list is based upon the assumption of a $3.5
million capital budget, funded out of Marion County's
tax base. This has been the case in recent years, with
2004 being the exception at $2.8 million.
At the end of this section is a list of projects that
will only happen with additional funding sources.
This can be seen as Indy Parks' wish list or a list of
projects to be presented to grantors.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Greenways / Maintenance
Greenways / Rangers
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Resource Development /
Community Recreation /
Maintenance

3 Increase frequency of on-site inspections of greenway call boxes

4 Initiate TrailSafe monitoring program

5 Work with Public Safety to increase police presence in parks and along greenways
(includes bike, foot, vehicle, and horseback patrols)

6 Coordinate Peace In Streets efforts with Public Safety

7 Increase staff certifications for playground safety

Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions
Administration / All Divisions

8 Inventory and align staff and resources to meet current needs, mission, vision, and
values

9 Update main reporting and tracking software for more effective use

10 Increase frequency of on-site inspections

11 Improve efficiencies for better turn-around times

12 Evaluate current standards

13 Implement best management practices

14 Review contractual services

Maintenance

Environmental Education /
Resource Development

2 Encourage installation of security camera along greenway corridors

RESPONSIBLE DIVISION

Administration / Rangers

Public Safety

ACTION CATEGORY

1 Merge Park Rangers with Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department

#

2010

2010

2009

2011

2009

2011

2010

2011

2009

2010

2010

2009

2010

2009

COMPLETION
DATE

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants

Within Existing Resources

COST

Implementation and Action Plan

179

180

New Amenities and Uses

ACTION CATEGORY

Greenways / Resource
Development

20 Increase mountain biking uses where appropriate

Maintenance / Resource
Development / Community
Recreation
Resource Development

25 Evaluate usage and need of all aquatic facilities for cost effectiveness

27 Evaluate and improve all way finding signage in parks and along greenway corridors
for all users

Community Recreation /
Resource Development /
Greenways

Maintenance / Resource
Development

24 Evaluate all family & nature centers, along with administrative & maintenance facilities

26 Evaluate usage and need of all tennis & basketball courts for renovation or alternative
recreational uses

2013

Greenways / Resource
Development

23 Repave and widen select portions of greenways

2013

2009

2010

2010

2012

2011

2010

2011

2010

2012

2012

2012

COMPLETION
DATE

22 Evaluate all playgrounds and update damaged equipment to current safety and A.D.A. Maintenance / Resource
Standards
Development

Evaluate & Upgrade Outdated Infrastructure

Resource Development

Resource Development /
Community Recreation

19 Increase the number of skate parks

21 Increase the number of family & nature centers

Resource Development /
Community Recreation

Greenways / Resource
Development / Community
Recreation
Greenways / Resource
Development / Community
Recreation
Resource Development /
Community Recreation

RESPONSIBLE DIVISION

18 Increase the number of canine companion zones

17 Increase the number of aquatic facilities (including water spray grounds)

16 Increase the number of permanent drinking fountains

15 Increase the number of permanent restroom facilities

#

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

COST

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Resource Development
Resource Development
Resource Development
Resource Development
Resource Development
Resource Development

30 Rezone all current park land to PK1 Zoning

31 Advocate all land leased by Parks Department be deeded and owned by Department

32 Pursue land acquisition in developed & developing areas and adjacent to parks

33 Plan and advocate for remaining natural areas in county

34 Pursue abandoned homes and vacant parcels to become parks

35 Constantly monitor land acquisition partnerships

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

39 Identify revenue generating opportunities for greenways with Indianapolis Parks
Foundation

Maintenance / Resource
Development
Maintenance / Resource
Development
Resource Development /
Land Stewardship /
Maintenance
Resource Development /
Land Stewardship /
Maintenance

43 Identify safe and viable re-uses for RCA Dome material

46 Pursue LEED certifications for new & existing facilities and accreditation for park staff

45 Identify locations for rain gardens and rain barrels in our parks

44 Decrease unnecessary light poles and other utility costs in parks

42 Identify areas in parks to increase tree canopy

41 Certify recycled tree debris for use as playground fall surfacing

Resource Development /
Land Stewardship /
Maintenance
Maintenance / Resource
Development
Resource Development /
Land Stewardship / Forestry

40 Identify open areas that can be removed from mowing schedule

2011

2010

2011

2010

2010

2009

2009

2011

38 Partner with CICF to connect Cultural Trail to existing and planned greenway corridors Greenways / Resource
Development

Green Initiatives

2012

Greenways / Resource
Development

37 Partner with DPW to connect bike lanes to existing and planned greenway corridors

Greenways

2011

Greenways / Resource
Development

2011

2011

2010

2011

2011

2010

2010

2011

2011

COMPLETION
DATE

36 Update Greenways Master Plan

Increase Greenway Corridor Connections

Greenways / Resource
Development

29 Update green space needs and park acreage analysis for Marion County based on
2010 Census data

RESPONSIBLE DIVISION

Greenways / Resource
Development

Increase Green Space

ACTION CATEGORY

28 Examine and recommend green space and park acreage need in Regional Center

#

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors
Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

COST

Implementation and Action Plan

181

182
Greenways / Resource
Development
Resource Development
Marketing
Park Rangers
Partnerships
Partnerships / Resource
Development
Partnerships

10 Work to preserve and enhance the integrity of Kessler's Indianapolis Park and
Boulevard System as placed on the National Register of Historic Places, beginning
with development of a system resource manual for all City agencies.

11 Work to restore historic and cultural assets such as the Taggert Memorial, Indy Parks
Memorial Groves and Peace Memorial at MLK Park.

12 Identify efficient methods to market and advertise recreational programs and services
to the public.

13 Maintain the role of Park Rangers in enhancing Environmental Education programs.

14 Strengthen our volunteer program to help provide needed additional staffing of
facilities, program instructors, maintenance and stewardship assistance.

15 Partner with user groups by providing land and expertise toward developing additional
sports fields in areas where existing fields are at capacity.

16 Recognize and incorporate older residents into volunteer and work opportunities.

7 Participate with sister agencies and non-profits in developing and operating the
Cultural Trail.

Greenways / Resource
Development

Greenways / Resource
Development

6 Develop public art in Indianapolis by identifying assets, locations for future work and
funding or partnerships to implement projects.

9 Raise awareness of the history of Indianapolis' Park system (e.g. George Kessler's
Plan, historical landmarks.)

Greenways / Resource
Development

4 Act as a leader in the area of brownfield re-use, focused on park and open space
development.
5 Continue to expand opportunities for residents to participate in cultural events,
including concerts and movies in parks.

Community Recreation

Environmental Education /
Resource Development
Greenways / Resource
Development
Community Recreation /
Greenways

3 Update the 1999 Environmental Education Master Plan.

8 Plan cultural activities to include baby boomer generation entering retirement.

Resource Development

2 Implement strategies identified by Mayor's Blue Ribbon Commission on Land
Acquisition.

RESPONSIBLE DIVISION

Land Stewardship / Resource
Development

Ongoing

ACTION CATEGORY

1 Develop Resource Management Plans for parks with significant natural areas.

#

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants

N/A
N/A

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

COST

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

COMPLETION
DATE

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Resource Development

19 Assist special interest groups with locating existing recreational facilities for their use.

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Community Recreation

Community Recreation
Community Recreation /
Environmental Education /
Sports & Special Facilities
Greenways / Resource
Development
Resource Development
Grants

23 Expand the volume of services to individuals with disabilities including new program
offerings for therapeutic, rehabilitation, inclusion and self contained programs.

24 Formalize a network of park professionals both in Indiana and nationally to strategize
with and share ideas for program and park accessibility.

25 Work to engage all minority communities in city parks and park programs.

27 Actively maintain a prioritized list of potential park acquisitions within Marion County.

28 Continue to aggressively seek grants to support Indy Parks efforts in programming,
maintenance and capital improvement.

Partnerships

Resource Development

31 Continue to put into practice baseline standards for each park and resource type,
including the provision of programs, facilities, acreage, service area, funding sources,
and long term capital improvements.

32 Strengthen our volunteer program to help provide needed additional staffing of
facilities, program instructors, maintenance and stewardship assistance.

N/A

Golf / Environmental
Education

30 Continue to improve natural areas on City golf courses as wildlife habitat and explore
their value for Environmental Education.

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Existing Resources / Grants

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Existing Resources / Grants /
Other Donors

N/A
N/A

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

Within Existing Resources

N/A

N/A

N/A

COMPLETION
COST
DATE
N/A
Within Existing Resources

29 Continue to implement non-traditional methods for parkland acquisition as identified in Finance / Resource
the Trust for Public Lands' report such as recreation easements, temporary parks, tax- Development
abatement incentives, developer donations and utilizing and acquiring non-park op

26 Work to provide additional public access to our waterways.

Greenways

22 Promote use of bicycles over cars by advocating for bike lanes on Marion County's
roads.

Community Recreation /
20 Expand partnership with School Corporations to utilize gymnasiums and athletic
facilities after hours.
Sports & Special Facilities
21 Plan and construct more trails within park properties for walking, jogging, rollerblading. Resource Development

Risk Management

18 Update the Emergency Action Plan in place for each Indy Parks facility using a
standardized format throughout Department.

RESPONSIBLE DIVISION
Resource Development

ACTION CATEGORY

17 Strongly discourage the taking of parkland for non-park purposes; any taking of
parkland should be at market value, lease arrangement or trade for land in the same
service area.

#

Implementation and Action Plan

183

Climbing Walls

Eagle Creek Park Beach Bath House Design

Aquatics

Aquatics

184
Pool leak study

Design and install Water Spray Area
Design and install Water Spray Area
Install water spray area
Replace dehumidifier
Indoor Pool Heating Control System
Design new deck grating/deck drains
Install new deck grating/drains
Repair and paint ceiling, floors, locker rooms & walls
Install climbing wall
Install Lifeguard Shade Umbrellas and Large Shade
Structures at various pools
Design and install Water Spray Area eliminate baby
pool
Spray pool installation
Spray pool design
Design Sprayground per United Water Grant
Repair Leak - Construction
Construction Documents for Thatcher HVAC units
Replace HVAC units
Replace drain grates
Install UV filtration system
Paint understructure of water slides
Paint trim and some siding on Bath Houses
Paint SCS play equipment

Gustafson Baby Pool
Hawthorne Park
Highland Park
Indy Island Pool
Krannert Indoor Pool
Krannert Indoor Pool
Krannert Indoor Pool

LaShonna Bates Indoor Aquatic Center

Pool TBA

RCA Dome & Shade Structures

Rhodius Park Spray Area

Riverwood Park
Riverwood Park
Riverwood Spray Ground
Sahm Pool
Thatcher Pool
Thatcher Pool
Various Pools
Various Pools
Various Pools
Various Pools
Various Pools - SCS Pool Painting

Aquatics

Aquatics

Aquatics

Aquatics

Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics

Aquatics

Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics

250,000

8,220
350,000
100,000
150,000

$
$
$
$

265,000

50,000

25,000

225,000
260,000
260,000
250,000
4,288
50,000
265,000

20,000

30,000

19,056

10,000

20,000

60,000
3,500
50,000
508

Planning
Estimated

$

$

$

$

$
$
$
$
$
$
$

$

$

Pool leak study, Prepare construction documents

Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics

Aquatics

$

$

$

$
$
$

Spray Pool Change Order

Replace galvanized steel piping, obsolete fixtures

Install new signage at various aquatics centers
Add gutters to bath house exterior
Install pool liner
fill 11'X8'X6' deep abandoned water meter
Add climbing walls to Thatcher, Willard, Brookside,
Gustafson and Ellenberger

Description

Ellenberger Park Pool
Garfield, Gustafson & Sahm Pool - Various
Pool Grates
Gustafson & Perry Park Pool

Aquatics

Aquatics
Aquatics
Aquatics

Aquatics

Project Name

Aquatics Centers Signage
Bethel Park
Bethel Pool
Clayton & LaSalle

Type

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Purchase and Install ADA Chair Lift at each pool
Install Plastic Grates per Virginia Graeme Baker Act
Install liner
Replace 2 furnaces, 1 condensing unit
Engineering evaluation of second floor load bearing
capacity to house weight equipment
Renovate north entrance
Demo buildings
Demo one or both buildings
ADA issues - Renovate restrooms at Shelters
A,B,C,D,G
Replaced windows
Interior renovation
Repair/Paint exterior
Construct Pole Building
Restrooms ADA Accessibility - Design
Install men's & women's restrooms. Revise ADA
building access.
Replace galvanized steel piping, obsolete fixtures
Replace galvanized steel piping throughout building
Paint office building exterior
Exterior renovation: repl. roof, soffit/fascia
boards/windows. Repair brick veneer @NW corner
Repair steps/ADA accessibility - Construction
Replace gutters
Replace 2 furnaces, 1 unit heater
Design for renovated lobby, office, restroom, rink
window, vending area
Rink office/lobby repairs, vending area
Renovate interior, HVAC, offices restrooms, insulation
etc.
Replace failed fire alarm system
Repair environmental management system
Renovate restrooms, doors, bldg. Upgrade dressing
rooms.
Renovate 2 buildings

Various Pools Install Grates

Wes Montgomery Pool
Broad Ripple Park

Brookside Family Center

Brookside Family Center
Brookside Maintenance Bldgs.
Brookside maintenance building(s)

Eagle Creek

Eagle Creek Hide-A-Way
Eagle Creek Admin Office & ADA
Eagle Creek Maintenance
Eagle Creek Maintenance
Eagle Creek Park - Marina

Eagle Creek Park - PLC

Eagle Creek Park Beach Bath House
Eagle Creek Park Office
Eagle Creek Park Office

Eagle Creek Park Office

Eagle Creek Park Office
Ellenberger Ice Rink
Ellenberger Park

Ellenberger Park

Ellenberger Park

Garfield Maintenance Bldg.

Garfield Park Conservatory
Garfield Park Conservatory

Garfield Park-MacAllister Center

Holliday Park Maintenance

Aquatics

Aquatics
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings

Buildings

Buildings

Description

Various Pools ADA Chair Lifts

Project Name

Aquatics

Type

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

100,000

100,000

$
$

8,775
15,000

200,000

$
$
$

45,000
375,000

13,000

$
$
$

50,000

45,000

$
$

75,000
45,000
25,000
30,000

$
$
$
$

250,000
18,000
75,000
15,000

557,000

$
$
$
$
$

250,000
10,000

7,500

$
$
$

50,000
15,000

10,000

$
$

$

Planning
Estimated

Implementation and Action Plan

185

186

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts

Buildings

Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings

Type

JTV Hill Park
Kuntz Stadium
New Maintenance Building
Old Northside Caboose
Post Road Bldg.
Riverside Family Center
Riverside Park - Iron Skillet Flooring
Riverside Park - Marina
Southeastway Activity Center
Southeastway Barn
Southeastway Park
Taggert Memorial Renovation
Thatcher Locker Room
Various Buildings
Various Facilities
Various Locations
Various Locations
Windsor Village
Grassy Creek Regional Park
Arsenal Park
Babe Denny/Bluff Park
Basketball Courts
Beckwith Memorial Park
Beckwith Memorial Park
Broad Ripple Park
Broadway-61st Park
Brookside Park
Carson Park
Chapel Hill
Christian Park
Christina Oaks/Krannert
Dubarry Park
Ellenberger Park
Faculty/Fall Creek & 16th Park
Fall Creek & 16th Park
Franklin Twp. Park
Gardner Park

Project Name
Replace bleachers
Sealing concrete bleachers and floor
Purchase building adjacent to Maint. bldg.
Restore Caboose back to original condition
Renovate Restrooms and miscellaneous upgrades
Remodel lobby
Replace Flooring and Beams in Kitchen Area
to eliminate proposed ramp @ north entry door
Replace current toilets with pressure assist type
Paint roof
Stain exterior wood of Activity Center
Renovation Construction
Replace locker room stalls
HVAC System Updates
HVAC System Updates
HVAC System Updates
General Bldg. - Renovations
Voice alarm system addendum
Renovate BB courts (2)
Color coat tennis courts (2) & basketball court
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Color coat/crack seal/various locations
Convert tennis court to basketball court
Renovate basketball courts (2)
Color coat tennis courts (6)
Color coat /crack seal tennis courts (2)
Renovate tennis courts (4)
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Renovate BB (2) & tennis courts (2)
Renovate tennis courts (5) & basketball court
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Renovate basketball court
Color coat tennis courts (8)
Color coat basketball courts (2)
Color coat tennis courts (2)
Color coat basketball courts (2)
Convert tennis courts to parking lot

Description
40,000
635,000
640,000
500,000
24,960
5,537

8,000
1,700,000
15,000
25,000
20,000
50,000
100,000
2,200
70,000
15,000
12,000
70,000
9,000
10,000
30,000
10,000
20,000
10,000
180,000
270,000
10,000
45,000
80,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
90,000

$
$
$
$
$
$

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

Planning
Estimated

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways

Golf

Courts
Courts

Courts

Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts
Courts

Type

Garfield Park
Garfield Tennis
German Church & 30th Park
German Church & 30th Park
Greene Park
Gustafson Park
Gustafson Park
Hwy Parcel 15
Indianola/Lentz Parks
JTV Hill, John Ed Park, Porter Playfield
Juan Solomon Park
Krannert Park
Moreland/Olin Park
Patricia Park/Robey Park
Perry Park
Perry/Southside Parks
Rhodius Park
Robey Park
Ross Claypool
Sahm Park Tennis Courts
Stout Field/Tarkington
Stringtown Park
Various BB and Tennis Courts
Virginia Lee O'Brien Park
Washington Park
Watkins Park
Wes Montgomery Park
Sarah Shank Golf Course
Canal Towpath
Fall Creek Trail
Greenways Depot
South White River
South White River
Town Run Park
Various trails
Various trails
Various trails

Project Name
Renovate tennis court lighting
Renovate Tennis courts/fencing/lights
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Renovate tennis courts (4)
Downsize 8 tennis courts to 4 renovated courts
Color coat /crack seal tennis courts (2)
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Renovate BB court
Renovate basketball courts (2)
Renovate basketball courts (4)
Color coat tennis courts (4)
Color coat tennis courts (4)
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Color coat basketball courts (2)
Color coat tennis courts (4)
Color coat basketball courts (2)
Color coat tennis courts (4)
Color coat tennis courts (3)
Renovate basketball courts
Renovate tennis courts (4)
Color coat/crack seal basketball courts (2)
Renovate basketball court
Cut expansion joints-backfill
Renovate basektball court
Renovate 3 full and 2 1/2 basketball courts
Color coat tennis courts (4) & basketball court
Color coat basketball courts (4)
Sarah Shank maint. bldg soil boring and survey
Erosion control on canal
Repave trail-low areas
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Purchase of right of way easement from CSX RR
Install trail
Renovate 96th Street entrance
Trail renovation and maintenance (gravel)
Trail renovation and maintenance
Trail renovation and maintenance

Description

650,000
8,000
15,000
700,000
15,000
20,000
75,000
150,000

45,000
150,000
25,000
25,000

$
$
$
$

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

260,000
10,000
20,000
275,000
10,000
10,000
45,000
90,000
180,000
20,000
20,000
10,000
10,000
20,000
10,000
20,000
15,000
5,000
20,000
10,000
5,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

Planning
Estimated

Implementation and Action Plan

187

188

Gus /Shambaugh Sports Complex

JTV Hill Park, Douglass Family Center
Maintenance HQ (Shadeland)
Moreland Park
Muni Gardens
Olin Park
Sahm, Wes Mont, Oscar Charl., Bkside
Southeastway Park
Southeastway Park
Southwestway Park
Stout Field
Thatcher, Bluff, FC16, Kuntz, Roselawn
Thompson Park Paving
Tolin-Akeman Park
Town Run Trail Park
Various Parking Lots
Various Parking Lots
Various Parking Lots
Washington Park
Various Playgrounds
Douglass Family Center
Dubarry/Gardner/7 other parks
Eagle Creek Maintenance Building
Eagle Creek Orinthology Center
Eagle Creek Park-Orinthology Center
Eagle Creek-Hide-A-Way
Garfield Park - Burrello Center

Lots/Roads

Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Playgrounds
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs

Roofs

Various trails
Douglass Park
Dubarry Park
Eagle Creek
Eagle Creek Maintenance
Eagle Creek Office Area
Eagle Creek Ornithology Center
Ellenberger Park
Garfield Park North Lot, Conserv. Lot

Project Name

Greenways
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads
Lots/Roads

Type
Trail renovation and maintenance
Expand parking lot
Renovate parking lot
Pave parking areas--Shelters A-H, Site 5
Pave parking areas
Pave parking areas
Renovate bus parking area
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Renovate lot (repair recoat restripe)
Design & pave parking lot, walkway to Diamond #1,
install shelter
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Pave parking lot
Pave parking areas
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Pave parking areas
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Resurface paved park roads
Expand & add new parking areas to service shelters
Pave soccer parking lot
Pave parking areas
Renovate lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Pave entrance drive, parking lot and trail
Pave gravel lot
Pave gravel lot
Seal coating/patching/striping
Seal coating/patching/striping
Seal coating/patching/striping
Renovate FC lot (repair/recoat/restripe)
Equipment & Surface Renovations
Replace gym roof
Shelter roof replacements
Install new roof, gutters, and exterior paint
Repair gutters/Install Gutter Helmets
Replace roof
Replace roof/gutter boards/repair fireplace flashing
Repair major leak

Description

14,000
30,000
58,000
60,000
57,000
50,000
550,000
220,000
75,000
58,000
45,000
85,000
60,000
25,000
30,000
30,000
30,000
15,000
20,000,000
120,000
60,000
50,000
15,000
5,000
15,000
15,000

100,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

150,000
85,000
25,000
550,000
75,000
65,000
10,000
10,000
20,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

Planning
Estimated

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Kuntz Administration Building

Muni Gardens
Pool Pump Houses (uncovered)
Riverside FC
Riverside FC
Riverside FC
Sahm Park Aquatic Building
Sahm Tennis Pavilion
Thatcher Maintenance Bldg.
Various Buildings
Various Buildings
Various Facilities
Watkins Park FC
Bluff Park
Broad Ripple Park
Brookside Pool
Christian Park Water Line
Eagel Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek Park
Eagle Creek-42nd St.
Eagle Creek-Marina
Eagle Creek-Rowing Tower (Finish)
Ellenberger Bridge over Pleasant Run
Ellenberger Park
Ellenberger-Main parking lot
Fall Creek & 30th Park
Fall Creek Loop Trail
Franklin Community Park
Garfield Park Arts Center
Garfield Park Train Shelter

Roofs

Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Roofs
Sitework

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

Sitework

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

Sitework

Sitework

Sitework

Sitework

Sitework

Krannert Family Center

Project Name

Roofs

Type
Design/Replace roof over indoor pool/pump house
Redesign interior rooms and replace roof, flashing,
paint and fascia boards
Replace EPDM roof
Install roof over pump houses
Replace (2nd) roof
Replace EPDM roof
Replace EPDM roof
Fix leaking roof over guard and filter room area
Replace existing roof system
Roof repairs and interior insulation
Major roof repair/replacement
Major roof repair/replacement
Major roof repair/replacement
Replace Roof
Resurface existing trail
Install 4 grills at new shelters
Install gravel path for chemical deliveries
Repair/replace water line and replace asphalt
Repair Coffer Dam
Replace electrical system at the Ornithology Center
Demo Octagon building
Demo Lilly Lodge (includes ground stabilization)
Replace seawall--Rick's Café
Replace rented Trlr with small permanent building
Demo pump haus near Lilly Lodge
Remove deteriorating seawall-replace with riprap
Remove deteriorating seawall-replace with riprap
Repair collapsed footer ramp, replace bent I-beam
Design and repair abutment
Install 24x44 shelter
Repair erosion damage near street light
Install parking lot & driveway
Access to Recreation Grant & Matching Funds
Install electrical service
Removal of Mold growth on the exterior of the duct
Restoration documents and construction

Description

18,000
70,000
25,000
50,000
50,000
25,000
46,000
25,000
20,000
20,000
20,000
50,000
15,000
1,767
5,000
10,000
50,000
20,000
6,000
70,000
150,000
100,000
25,000
150,000
300,000
100,000
45,000
10,000
20,000
100,000
334,000
65,000
1,400
75,000

30,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

100,000

$

Planning
Estimated

Implementation and Action Plan

189

190
$

Various Park Prairie Plantings

Washington Park

Water Fountain Installation

Wilbur Shaw Memorial Hill
Windsor Park
Windsor Park - Playground

Sitework

Sitework

Sitework

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

$

41,998,011

53,000
10,000
50,000

50,000

60,000

85,000

$
$

20,000
2,000,000
10,000
800,000
200,000
38,000
130,000
50,000
10,000
50,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

35,000

$

TOTAL

Porter Playfield
Post Road Park
Raymond Park
Rev. Mozel Sanders Park
Sahm & Tarkington Park Tennis
Southeastway Park
Southeastway Park
Southside - Perry Township Dog Park
Stable Chase Nature Sanctuary
Tolin-Akeman Park

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

15,000
50,000
25,000
15,000
4,900

$
$
$
$
$

$
$
$

Paul Ruster Dog Park

Sitework

Sitework
Sitework

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

250,000
75,000
28,400

100,000

Planning
Estimated

$
$
$

Purchase Agreement with County
Misc work
Velodrome track sealing
New waterline for Snow Magic project
Install property line fencing
Install gravel trail and add boardwalks
Renovate basketball court
Install last of three shelters
Park benches from Simon Group
Install Water & Line to Shelter, Playground and Dog
Park
Flatten uneven play area in SE corner of park
International Center
Install property line fencing
Field development with IPS (Construction)
Upgrade Tennis Facility
Design trail layout per grant specifications
Resurface trails [$206k project cost-$129k grant]
Establish southside dog park
Install property line fence
Install gravel trail
Land Stewardship 80 acres conversion from mowing to
non-mow sites
Renovate soccer fields
Indianola, Bertha Ross, Derby Hill, Wes Montgomery,
Broad Ripple Tennis, Juan Solomon
Resurface racing track
Demo old center
Playground Installation

Kitley & Troy Park
Major Taylor Velodrome
Major Taylor Velodrome
Major Taylor Velodrome
Marott Park
Marott Park
McCarty Triangle Park
Oscar Charleston
Park Benches

$

JTV Hill Park

Sitework
Sitework

Master Plan Recommendation for Improvement
Even out front field (hilly surface negatively affects play)

Grassy Creek Regional Park

Replace AC unit

Glenns Valley Office

Description

Sitework

Project Name

Sitework

Type

Implementation and Action Plan

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

Implementation and Action Plan
GRANTS AND SPECIAL PROJECTS
The list below is composed of projects that are beyond the ability of Indy Parks' typical capital budget to fund.
In these cases, the project's scheduling is contingent on receiving grants or monetary donations toward their
construction. It is often the case that a match is required, which would be funded from the recurring capital
budget. In recent years, Indy Parks has successfully funded very similar projects through Land and Water
Conservation Fund Grants, Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Grants and grants from private endowments.
Indy Parks' Grant Coordinator will continue to pursue these avenues over the coming years.
Type

Name

Aquatics

Franklin Community Park

Aquatic Center

Aquatics

Grassy Creek Regional Park

Aquatic Center

Aquatics
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Buildings
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Greenways
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework
Sitework

Southwestway Park

Aquatic Center

Brookside Family Center Terrace
Cancer Survivors Park
Douglass Center
Ellenberger Park
Ellenberger Park
Ellenberger Park

Repair terrace on north side
Total renovation
Building addition
Renovate ice rink lighting
Design new ice rink lighting
Renovate restrooms
Family Center & Nature Kiosk
Electrical upgrade & A/C gym & install wood floor
Scope and Design for electrical upgrade & A/C in gym
Add air conditioning to gym+multipurpose room
Expand weight room
Replace lockers
Renovate complete building
Nature Center
Design & build addition/new Nature Center
Building renovation
Construct Trail
Construction
Scoping and Design Development
Trail design-46th street to Dam
Trail construction-46th street to Dam
Construction-Monon to Central Ave.
Connectivity Trail construction-Link NWW to EC
Design-prepare construction documents and IDOT match
Construct Trail - INDOT Grant $1.8 Million
Pave parking lot-Water sports center
Purchase and install shelters
Activate fountains and install basin liner
Install bridge and trail to baseball complex
Field construction
Field development with IPS
General repairs at various locations
Fountain repairs and landscaping
Replace west field turf with artificial turf, upgrade East field turf

Grassy Creek Regional Park

Krannert Family Center
Krannert Family Center
Krannert Family Center
Krannert Family Center
Krannert Family Center
Rhodius Bathhouse
Skiles Test Nature Park
Southeastway Park
Velodrome
71st Street Trail connecting Eagle Creek & InTech
B-O Rail
B-O Rail Design
Eagle Creek Trail
Eagle Creek Trail
Fall Creek Trail
Northwestway Park to 56th St.
Pennsy Trail
Pennsy Trail
Eagle Creek
Fall Creek and 16th
Holliday Park - Ruins Fountain
Northwestway Park
Post Road Athletic Fields
Rev. Mozel Sanders Park
Various Sport Fields
Woodruff Place Fountains
Kuntz Sport Fields

Project

Family Center at Windsor Village Park

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan

191

~Standing Bear
Wetland Planting

Man’s heart away from nature becomes hard.

Implementation and Action Plan

192

2009-2014 Indianapolis-Marion County Park, Recreation & Open Space Plan


