MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BOARD OF THE CITY OF JASPER
June 13, 2016
The Stormwater Management Board of the City of Jasper, Indiana, met in regular session on
June 13, 2016 in the Council Chambers of City Hall located at 610 Main Street.
CALL TO ORDER
Vice Chairman Tom Schmidt, who presided, called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
ROLL CALL
Chairman Roger Messmer
Vice Chairman Tom Schmidt
Secretary Greg Krodel

absent
present
present

Also present were Engineer Technician Scott Schnell, City Attorney Renee Kabrick and Storm
Water Coordinator Chad Mundy.
Vice Chairman Tom Schmidt announced that a majority of the board members must be present
for a quorum. Two of the three members were present; therefore, there was a quorum for the
meeting.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Vice Chairman Tom Schmidt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES
The Board members examined the minutes of the regular meeting that was held on May 9, 2016.
Secretary Krodel motioned and Vice Chairman Schmidt seconded to approve the minutes as
presented. Motion carried 2-0.
CLAIMS
Vice Chairman Schmidt presented claims in the amount of $38,138.53 from May 6, 2016,
through June 9, 2016. Secretary Krodel motioned to approve the claims as presented. Vice
Chairman Schmidt seconded. Motion passed 2-0.

STORMWATER DEPARTMENT REPORTS by Engineering Technician
College View Estates Project
Engineering Technician Scott Schnell stated the City has
competed a preconstruction meeting with Quality Craft Construction. Scott Schnell also stated
that Quality Craft Construction is currently mobilizing to start on the project.
Golden Acres Phase Two Project
Engineering Technician Scott Schnell stated Love
Excavating laid 370 feet of pipe so far. There is a total of 1,200 feet required to complete the
job. Scott Schnell also stated he requested that the Street Department’s camera crew inspect the
pipe that has been laid already. The inspection was competed and so far everything looks good.

1

STORM WATER DEPARTMENT REPORTS by Storm Water Coordinator
ERU Update Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy presented to the Board a copy of the May
2016 Building Permits, with 11 additional ERUs indicated on the list. Vice Chairman Schmidt
motioned to approve the list as presented; with 11 new ERUs. Secretary Krodel seconded the
motion. Motion passed 2-0.
IDEM Monthly Report Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that the monthly IDEM
report has been completed and filed. The report listed 21 sites that were inspected in the month
of May. There were two rain events with over a ½ inch of accumulation last month.
Rule 5 Violations
Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy updated the Board on the rule 5
violations since last Stormwater Board meeting. There were three violations. The violations
were:
-Brookstone Estates V
large stock pile with no BMPs near wet land
-Evans Brook
mixer operating in street with sediment under it
-Timber Creek
tracking onto road
Erosion Control Permits
Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated there were no new
permits issued since last Board meeting. Chad Mundy also stated that there were no new plans
issued to the Stormwater Department.
Illicit Discharge and Spill Update Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy updated the Board on
the following illicit discharges and spills:
-There was a white material found in the storm sewer on Hartford Drive. Chad Mundy stated
that the Stormwater Inspection Crew and he investigated the illicit discharge but could not find a
source of the material. There will be follow up inspections.
-There was a salt spill (or release) at the closed City of Jasper’s Power Generation Plant on 15th
Street. The tarps over the salt allowed rain water into the three sided bin and released water
containing the salt. Additional measures were put into place so salt isn’t released again.
Drainage Permits Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that there were four new
drainage permits since the last board meeting. There are currently five open drainage permits.
City of Jasper Department Inspections Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated he has
completed all City of Jasper Department Inspections. The reports from the inspections are just
about compete. The new ArcGIS aerials are complete for each City of Jasper Department. Chad
Mundy also stated next project will be to compete the reports and start planning for annual City
of Jasper employee training.
City of Jasper Oil Inventory Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated while doing City of
Jasper Department inspections he completed an oil inventory for each City of Jasper Department.
Chad Mundy presented to the Board the oil inventory report. Chad Mundy also stated that based
on the results three City of Jasper Departments may need SPCC plans.
2016 Annual MS4 Meeting Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that Jeff Theising,
Scott Schnell, Chad Hurm and he attended the 2016 Annual MS4 Meeting. The meeting was
May 17, 2016 at Indianapolis. Chad Mundy also stated that he learned more on SPCC plans and
Department oil inventories. Chad Hurm and Chad Mundy are reviewing the information.
2

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion was made by Vice
Chairman Schmidt, seconded by Secretary Krodel and carried 2-0 to adjourn the meeting. The
meeting adjourned at 8:33 a.m.
_______________________
Chairman, Roger Messmer
Presiding Officer
Attest:
______________________________
Secretary, Greg Krodel
Chad Mundy, Storm Water Coordinator

3

