MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BOARD OF THE CITY OF JASPER
April 10, 2017
The Stormwater Management Board of the City of Jasper, Indiana, met in regular session on
April 10, 2017 in the Council Chambers of City Hall located at 610 Main Street.
CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Roger Messmer, who presided, called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
ROLL CALL
Chairman Roger Messmer
Vice Chairman Terry Tanner
Secretary Greg Krodel

present
present
present

Also present were Engineer Technician Scott Schnell, City Engineer Chad Hurm, City Attorney
Renee Kabrick, Street Commissioner Jeff Theising and Storm Water Coordinator Chad Mundy.
Chairman Roger Messmer announced that a majority of the board members must be present for a
quorum. All three members were present; therefore, there was a quorum for the meeting.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Chairman Roger Messmer led the Pledge of Allegiance.
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES
The Board members examined the minutes of the regular meeting that was held on March 13,
2017. Secretary Krodel motioned and Vice Chairman Tanner seconded to approve the minutes
as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
CLAIMS
Chairman Messmer presented claims in the amount of $10,367.11 from March 10, 2017, through
April 6, 2017. Vice Chairman Tanner motioned to approve the claims as presented. Secretary
Krodel seconded. Motion passed 3-0.
STORMWATER DEPARTMENT REPORTS by City Engineer Chad Hurm
2017 Projects
City Engineer Chad Hurm and the Stormwater Board talked about the 2017 stormwater projects.
The two projects are:
1) Vine Street Project
2) The River Center Project
Chad Hurm stated after those two project are completed he will review the remaining money and
start on the next project.

STORM WATER DEPARTMENT REPORTS by Storm Water Coordinator

1

ERU Update Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy presented to the Board a copy of the March
2017 Building Permits, with 3 additional ERUs indicated on the list. Chad Mundy also
presented a list of recalculated sites:
Cash Wagner/Jasper Lofts
-1 ERU
Secretary Krodel motioned to approve the list as presented; with 3 new ERUs and the
recalculated site amount. Vice Chairman Tanner seconded the motion. Motion Passed 3-0.
IDEM Monthly Report Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that the monthly IDEM
report has been completed and filed. The report listed 24 sites that were inspected in the month
of March. There were four ½” rain events, and there was 5.12” of rain for the month.
RULE 5 Violations Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated there were nine violations
since last Stormwater Board Meeting. Those violations were:
Jasper Lofts
The Servants Building Addition
Evans Brook Estates
Evans Brook Estates
Evans Brook Estates
Evans Brook Estates
Evans Brook Estates II
Evans Brook Estates II
Evans Brook Estates II

No inlet filter per plan
No BMPs at start of project
Vehicle tracking
Concrete washout not according to plan
Silt fence failure
Construction entrance not being maintained
Vehicle tracking
Concrete washout not according to plan
Construction entrance not being maintained

RULE 5 & POST CONSTRUCTION IDEM AUDIT Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy
stated he has received no information back from IDEM on the Rule 5 & Post Construction Audit.
Erosion Control Permits Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated there were two new
permits issued to Memorial Hospital project & Vine Street Lofts project. There was one new
plan submitted for Alumni Stadium Jasper Football Field project.
Drainage Permits Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that there was one new drainage
permit since the last Board meeting. There are currently six open drainage permits.
Demolition Permits Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that there were no new
demolition permits since the last board meeting.
Grading – Land Disturbance Permits Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that there
were no new Grading – Land Disturbance permits since the last board meeting.
WITZ & WQKZ Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated he has been working with Gene
Kuntz on the 2017 radio public educational ads. The ads are ready and Chad Mundy played
them to the Board. The total cost to run the ads was $465 for the month of April. They will be
played on WITZ and WQKZ.
Illicit Discharge & Spills Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated he was called to the
corner of Clay Street and Second Street. A man was power spraying water to clean pool filters.
The water was in the gutter and entering a storm drain. Chad Mundy stated he had a meeting
with management at Jay Kem to talk about their options. Since there were no better options Jay
Kem is going to build a large box with a filter medium made of rock and sand. They are going to
wash future pool filters in this box.
2

Workshop in Evansville Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated that he and Scott Schnell
went to a stormwater educational workshop in Evansville on March 3, 2017. Karen Barnhill,
Evansville’s Stormwater Coordinator, gave a speech on Stormwater BMPs.
Jasper Middle School
Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated he taught the Jasper
Middle School 8th grade classes on March 15, 2017. This is part of the public education program
for the stormwater department. Chad Mundy stated he had a Power Point presentation and also
used a watershed model to teach the kids.
2017 MS4 Annual Meeting
Stormwater Coordinator Chad Mundy stated the 2017 MS4
Annual Meeting will be May 16, 2017. Scott Schnell, Jeff Theising, Chad Hurm and Chad
Mundy are signed up to attend this meeting. The meeting will be held at Indianapolis.
Southern Indiana MS4 Stormwater Advisory Committee
Stormwater Coordinator Chad
Mundy stated he attended a meeting at Evansville on March 29, 2017 with other nearby
stormwater coordinators. This meeting was an attempt to form a MS4 advisory committee. This
group would share resources and information. Chad Mundy stated there will be more
information to come.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion was made by Chairman
Messmer, second by Secretary Krodel and carried 3-0 to adjourn the meeting. The meeting
adjourned at 9:15 a.m.

_______________________
Chairman, Roger Messmer
Presiding Officer
Attest:
______________________________
Secretary, Greg Krodel
Chad Mundy, Storm Water Coordinator

3

