CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
93.001
93.002
93.003
93.004
93.005
93.006
93.007
93.008
93.009
93.010
93.011
93.012

Definitions
Fire exits
Opening fire hydrants, stopcocks; permission required
Bonfires prohibited; exception
Combustible materials
Flameproofing
Fire extinguishers; required in certain public buildings
Adequate lighting required
Smoking restrictions
Conflicting statutes
Training and assignment of Fire Department personnel
Civil Service System for Fire Department
Bureau of Fire Prevention

93.025
93.026
93.027
93.028
93.029
93.030

Created
Director designated
Inspectors; additional members’ duties
Duties
Offices created; lieutenant and captain; reappointment
Inspections generally
Fire Hazards

93.045
93.046
93.047
93.048
93.049

Orders to remove
Building moving, demolition; notice
Posting of signs
Disconnection of defective equipment
Service of orders; appeals
Fire Board of Appeals

93.060
93.061
93.062
93.063
93.064

Composition
Procedure; quorum
Authority; time limitation
Powers
Further appeals
Smoke Detectors

93.080
93.081
93.082
93.083
93.084
93.085
93.086
93.087

Definitions
Smoke detectors required
Location
Installation
Maintenance
Responsibility
Certificate of compliance
Enforcement authority
Recover of Fire Protection Costs

93.100

Recovery of fire protection costs

93.999

Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
APPROVED. When applied to materials, type of construction and appliances, refers to approval by the
Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention as a result of investigations and tests conducted by him or her or by
reason of accepted principles or tests by the National Board of Fire Underwriters of the Underwriters’
Laboratories, Inc., or the National Bureau of Standards.
BUILDING. Its customary and ordinary meaning; but, where a shed or attachment has been built onto an
original structure, or where 2 or more buildings have been joined together, or where a second building has been
built adjacent to the first and utilized a wall of the first building as a party wall, all parts shall be considered 1
building, or any edifice or structure for human habitation whether located on or affixed to land.
LODGING HOUSE. Its ordinary and customary meaning; and shall also mean and include hotels, boarding
houses, rooming houses, tenement houses or any other houses, by whatsoever name known, used and occupied
or designed and constructed so that the same may be used and occupied for the permanent or temporary
occupancy for 3 or more living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 604, § 3)
§ 93.002 FIRE EXITS.
(A) No person shall, at any time, place an encumbrance of any kind whatsoever before or upon any fire
escape, balcony or ladder intended as a means of escape from fire. It shall be the duty of every member of the
Police or Fire Department who shall discover any fire escape encumbered in any manner to forthwith report the
same to the Bureau of Fire Prevention, and the Bureau shall immediately notify the occupant to remove the
encumbrance.
(B) It is unlawful for any person to place, store or keep or permit to be placed, stored or kept under or at
the bottom of any stairway, inside or outside, elevator or other shaft in any building, any combustible or
flammable materials, fluids or compounds, nor shall any such combustible or flammable materials be placed or
stored or kept in any place where ignition or burning would obstruct or render hazardous, egress from a building.
(C) No obstruction shall be permitted in hallways of lodging houses, tenement houses or apartments.
(D) All doors, aisles and passageways within and leading into or out of places of assembly shall be kept
free from easels, signs, standards, campstools, chairs, sofas, benches and any other articles that might obstruct or
delay the exit of the audience, congregation or assemblage during the entire time which any show, performance,
service, exhibit, lecture, concert, ball or other assemblage may be held. Rear passage from all exits and on
sidewalks shall, at all times, be maintained outside of all places of assembly.
(E) (1) No aisle, passageway or stairway in any store shall be obstructed with tables, showcases or other
obstructions during the hours the store is open to the public.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Police Department to render assistance to the Bureau of Fire Prevention
in the enforcement of these provisions.
(F) All required exit doorways, other than those normally used for entrance shall be plainly marked by
approved exit signs sufficiently illuminated when the floor area is occupied, to be readily distinguished.

(G) Directional signs shall be placed on walls, or otherwise displayed in conspicuous locations to direct
occupants to exits.
(H) Required exits shall be kept adequately lighted at all times that the building thereby served is occupied.
(I) No doors designated by the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention as emergency exits shall be
barred or locked.
(J) Where the number of persons exceed 75 in any room, the artificial lighting of the room and of
exitways therefrom shall be by electricity so arranged and supplied that interruption of supply to any 1 lighting
branch circuit will not result in extinguishment of all the lights in the room or all the lights along any exitway.
(Prior Code, § 6-17) (Ord. 604, § 7) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.003 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS, STOPCOCKS; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized agent of a waterworks company or a member of
the Fire Department, while engaged in the performance of his or her regular duties and for the uses and purposes
of the Department, to open or attempt to open any of the fire hydrants, public stopcocks or valves connected
with any such waterworks system of the city without the person first obtaining written permission so to do from
the company.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 604, § 7) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.004 BONFIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
(A) No person shall kindle or maintain any fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on or
in any street, alley or road except with a wire, metal or similar non-flammable container, enclosure or unless the
fire is and remains under the direct and constant supervision of some competent person.
(B) No person shall kindle or maintain any fire or bonfire on public ground unless written permission to do
so shall first have been secured from the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(C) It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or maintain any fire or authorize any fire to be kindled or
maintained on private property within the corporate limits of the City of Hobart for the purpose of disposing of
compostible materials, garbage, refuse, rubbish, waste, debris and recyclables. Any lawful fire must be kindled
and maintained in a wire, metal, concrete or similar non-flammable container enclosure and kept under the direct
and constant supervision of a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 6-19) (Ord. 604, § 8; Ord. 93-45, (part)) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.005 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
(A) Disposal. No person shall deposit smoldering coals or embers, greasy or oily substances or other
matter liable to create spontaneous ignition within 10 feet of any wooden or plastered wall, partition, fence,
floor, sidewalk, lumber, hay, shavings, rubbish or other combustible materials, except in metallic or other noncombustible receptacles. The receptacles, unless resting on a non-combustible floor or on the ground outside the
building, shall be placed on non-combustible stands, and in every case shall be kept at least 2 feet away from any
combustible wall or partition.
(Prior Code, § 6-20)
(B) Disposal. No person shall permit to remain upon any roof or in any court, yard, vacant lot or open
space, any accumulation of wastepaper, hay, grass, straw, weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste or
rubbish of any kind. All weeds, grass, vines or other growth, when same endangers property or is liable to be
fired, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property it is on.
(Prior Code, § 6-21)
(C) Storage requirements.
(1) No person making, using, storing or having charge or control of any shavings, excelsior, rubbish,

sacks, bags, litter, hay, straw or combustible trash, waste or fragments shall fail, neglect or refuse, at the close of
each day, to cause all such matter which is not compactly baled or stacked in an orderly manner to be removed
from the building or stored in suitable vaults or in metal-lined covered receptacles or bins.
(2) The Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall require suitable baling presses to be installed
in stores, apartment buildings, factories and similar places where accumulation of paper and waste materials are
not removed at least every second day.
(Prior Code, § 6-22)
(Ord. 604, § 8) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.006 FLAMEPROOFING.
(A) Electric bulb decorations. Electric light bulbs in stores or public halls shall not be decorated with paper
or other combustible materials unless the materials shall first have been rendered flameproof.
(Prior Code, § 6-23)
(B) Decorations in places of assembly. In places of assembly, all combustible decorative materials,
including curtains, acoustical materials, streamers, cloth, cotton batting, straw, vines, leaves and moss, but not
including floor coverings, shall be of materials not exceeding 1/16-inch in thickness, applied directly to and
adhering to a non-combustible base. The flameproofing, unless certified by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., or
other laboratories of recognized standing as being of a permanent nature, shall be renewed each 6 months if
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-24)
(Ord. 604, § 8) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.007 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS; REQUIRED IN CERTAIN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
The Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall require the installation of portable fire extinguishers or
other fire extinguishing appliances as may be deemed necessary in schools, hotels, lodging houses, hospitals,
churches, halls, theaters and all other places in which numbers of persons meet, work, live or congregate from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-25) (Ord. 604, § 8)
§ 93.008 ADEQUATE LIGHTING REQUIRED.
All apartment buildings, lodging houses, factories, hotels and hospitals shall maintain adequate lighting in
all hallways and stairways from dusk to dawn.
(Prior Code, § 6-26) (Ord. 604, § 8)
§ 93.009 SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
(A) The Chief of the Fire Department or the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention is empowered and
authorized to inspect all warehouses, stores, industrial establishments and any building, structure or open space
in which combustible materials are handled, stored, manufactured or sold, and where conditions are found to
justify the prohibition of smoking, he or she shall order the owner or occupant, in writing, to post suitable signs
or placards in each room, building, structure, elevator or place in which the prohibition of smoking shall be
enforced.
(B) All such signs or installations shall read:
BY ORDER OF
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 93
(C) The Chief of the Fire Department or the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention may designate
special rooms or portions of structures in which smoking, under such restrictions as he or she may designate,

may be permitted.
(D) It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to remove any placard posted pursuant to this chapter. It is
unlawful for any person to smoke in any properly placarded place.
(E) The term SMOKING shall include the carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or tobacco in any
form.
(Prior Code, § 6-27) (Ord. 604, § 9) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.010 CONFLICTING STATUTES.
This chapter shall be effective except where it conflicts with the rules and regulations of the state’s Fire
Marshal, the rules and regulations of the state’s Administrative Building Council and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-29) (Ord. 604, § 12)
§ 93.011 TRAINING AND ASSIGNMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
(A) No person employed by the City of Hobart shall be assigned to or shall engage in the functions of fire
suppression and fire protection within the Fire and Ambulance Department of the city without first having:
(1) Properly taken and passed an entrance examination administered by the City of Hobart Civil
Service Fire Commission in accordance with the provisions hereof subsequent and amendatory thereto or
otherwise achieved coverage by Fire Civil Service in the City of Hobart through any other means authorized by
law; and
(2) Received the customary and usual training in fire suppression and protection provided to entry
level firefighters by the Hobart Fire and Ambulance Department.
(B) Nothing in this section shall prevent an employee of the City of Hobart Fire and Ambulance
Department who is not qualified to perform fire suppression and protection activities under division (A) above
from performing any other activities or duties of employment for which he or she may be qualified including,
but without limitation, the provision of emergency medical services, fire inspection and investigation, clerical
and maintenance duties.
(Ord. 97-14, § 1)
§ 93.012 CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT.
(A) Application of section. The provisions of this section shall apply to all cities having regularly
organized paid Fire Departments and a population of less than 90,000 or more than 125,000 according to the last
preceding United States decennial census in counties having 3 or more second class cities, provided, however,
that the provisions may be applied to other cities in the counties pursuant to division (T) of this section.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-1)
(B) Civil Service Commission - members - selection - qualifications - vacancies - removal - quorum. The
Civil Service Commission shall be composed of 3 persons to be appointed as follows.
(1) One to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Common Council for the term of 1
year.
(2) One to be elected by the active members of the Fire Department for the term of 2 years in the
following manner:
(a) An election to be made by the active members of the Department shall be made at a meeting
called specifically for that purpose by the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board shall give at least 3
weeks notice of the meeting to all active members of the Department by posting the notice in prominent
locations in stations of the Department. The notice shall also be read during shift roll calls. The notice must
designate the

time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
(b) Only active members of the Department may attend the meeting, and at the meeting 1 of
them shall be selected as Chairperson. All voting must be by secret written ballot. The other procedures for
holding the meeting may be determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety and shall be posted in
accordance with the preceding division.
(3) The third member shall be chosen by the above 2 members for a term of 3 years. In the event
that the above 2 members fail to agree within 30 days of their appointment, then, upon the petition of any
interested person showing the facts, the judge of the circuit court shall appoint a third member.
(4) Should the Mayor fail to appoint or the Council fail to approve a member as provided in division
(B)(1) within 45 days after the effective date (January 21, 1972) of this section or the expiration date of any such
members’ term as provided hereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make the appointment and members shall be
qualified as if appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council.
(5) The first such election provided for in division (B)(2) shall be conducted within 45 days after the
effective date (January 21, 1972) of this law.
(6) Upon the expiration of each of the terms their successor shall be appointed in a like manner to
serve for a term of 3 years. The Commissioners shall be of good moral character, a citizen of the United States,
an elector of the county in which he or she resides, and not more than 2 of whom shall be of the same political
party. Any member of such Commission may be removed from office for incompetency, dereliction of duty,
malfeasance in office, or other good cause by the Mayor with the consent of the Common Council. Provided,
however, that no member of the Commission shall be removed until the charges with due notice, have been
preferred in writing, and a full hearing had before the Mayor of the city. Provided, further, that the member of
the Commission so removed shall have the right of appeal to the circuit court of the county in which that city is
located, which court shall thereupon proceed to hear and determine such appeal in a summary manner. The
hearing shall be confined to the determination of whether the judgment or the order of removal was or was not
made in good faith or cause, and no appeal to such court shall be taken accept upon such ground or grounds.
Two members of such commission shall constitute a quorum and the votes of any 2 members of such
Commission concurring shall be sufficient for the decision of all matters and the transaction of all business to be
decided or transacted by the commission. No person shall be appointed to serve on the Commission who has
held any political elective office in the 3 years immediately preceding his or her appointment.
(Ord. 97-13, § 3)
(C) Employees of Department included; appointments and promotions, and the like; examinations;
investigations; chief. The classified Civil Service and provisions of this section shall include all full paid
employees of the Fire Department of each city, town, or municipality coming within its purview, who are
members of the Firemen’s Pension Fund. All appointments to and promotions in the Department shall be made
solely on merit, efficiency, and fitness, which shall be ascertained by open competitive examination and
impartial investigations, providing that such investigation shall apply to applicants for entrance only there shall
be no weight given to an oral interview in competitive examinations for appointment; provided, however, that
the Chief of the fire force shall be appointed by the appointing power or the Board of Public Works and Safety
from the ranks of the officers of the fire force; provided, further, that in the event of removal or demotion of the
Chief of the fire force, he or she shall not be demoted to a rank lower than that which he or she had achieved
through civil service examination. No person shall be reinstated in, or transferred, suspended; or discharged from
any such place, position, or employment contrary to the provisions this section.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-3)
(D) Commission; officers; powers and duties; rules and regulations.
(1) Immediately after appointment, the Commission shall organize by electing 1 of its members
Chairperson and hold regular meetings at least once a month, and such additional meetings as may be required
for the proper discharge of their duties.
(2) They shall appoint a secretary and chief examiner, who shall keep the records of the Commission,
preserve all reports made to it, superintend and keep a record of all examinations held under its direction, and
perform, such other duties as the commission may prescribe.

(3) The secretary and chief examiner shall be appointed as a result of competitive examination, which
examination may be either original and open to all properly qualified citizens of the state, or promotional and
limited to persons already in the service of the Fire Department, as the Commission may decide. The secretary
and chief examiner may be subject to suspension, reduction, or discharge in the same manner and subject to the
same limitations as are provided in the case of members of the Fire Department. It shall be the duty of the Civil
Service Commission:
(a) To make suitable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
Such rules and regulations shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may be held, and
appointments, promotions, transfers, reinstatements, demotions, suspensions, and discharges shall be made; and
may, also, provide for any other matters connected with the general subject of personnel administration, and
which may be considered desirable to further carry out the general purposes of this section, or which may be
found to be in the interest of good personnel administration. The rules and regulations and any amendments
thereof shall be printed, mimeographed, or multigraphed for free public distribution. Such rules and regulations
may be changed from time to time;
(b) All tests shall be practical, and shall consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the
capacity of the person examined to perform duties of the position to which appointment is to be made, and may
include tests of physical fitness and/or of manual skill;
(c) The rules and regulations adopted by the Commission shall provide for a credit of 10% in
favor of all applicants for appointment under civil service, who, in time of war, or in any expedition of the armed
forces of the United States, have served in and been honorably discharged from the armed forces of the United
States. These credits apply to entrance examinations only;
(d) The Commission shall make investigations concerning and report upon all matters touching
the enforcement and effect of the provisions of this chapter, and the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder;
inspect all institutions, departments, offices, places, positions, and employments affected by this chapter; and
ascertain whether this chapter and all such rules and regulations are being obeyed. Such investigations may be
made by the Commission or by any Commissioner designated by the Commission for that purpose. Not only
may these investigations be made by the commission as aforesaid, but the Commission shall make like
investigation on petition of a citizen duly verified, stating that irregularities or abuses exist, or setting forth in
concise language, in writing, the necessity for such investigation. In the course of such investigation the
Commission or designated commissioner, or chief examiner shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena
and require the attendance of witnesses and the production by them of books, papers, documents, and accounts
appertaining to the investigation, and also to cause the deposition of witnesses residing within the state to be
taken, in the manner prescribed by, law for like depositions, in civil actions. The oaths administered and the
subpoenas issued hereunder shall have the same force and effect as the oaths administered by a circuit judge in
his or her judicial capacity; and the failure upon the part of any person so subpoenaed to comply with the
provisions of this section. shall be deemed a violation of this section, and punishable as such;
(e) All hearings and investigations before the Commission or chief examiner shall be governed
by the rules of civil procedure and any fireman charged with violation upon his or her request, be given a public
hearing. He or she shall have the right to call witnesses and question his or her accuser under oath and employ
counsel. In all hearings wherein the fireman may be discharged, demoted, or suspended for a period in excess of
15 calendar days, the Commission shall cause the evidence to be taken by a court reporter whose transcript shall
form a permanent part of the records of the proceedings. A copy of the transcript shall be furnished to the
fireman, free of charge, for use on appeal at the request of the fireman;
(f) To hear and determine appeals or complaints respecting the administrative work of the
Personnel Department; appeals upon the allocation of position; the rejection of an examination, and such other
matters as may be referred to the Commission;
(g) Establish and maintain in card or other suitable form a roster of officers and employees;
(h) Provide for, formulate, and hold competitive tests to determine the relative qualifications. of
persons who seek employment in any class or position, and, as a result thereof, establish eligible lists for the
various classes of position, and to provide that members laid off because of curtailment of expenditures,
reduction in force, and for like causes, shall be the last members, including probationers, that have been
appointed to the Fire Department. Such removal shall be accomplished by suspending in numerical order,

commencing with the last members appointed to the Fire Department, all recent appointees to the Fire
Department, until such reductions necessary shall have been accomplished. Provided, further, that in the event
the Fire Department shall again be increased in numbers, the firemen suspended under the terms of this chapter,
shall be reinstated before any new appointments to the Fire Department shall be made; and
(i) When a vacant position is to be filled, to certify to the appointing authority, on written
request, the name of the person highest on the eligible list for the class. If there are no such lists, to authorize
provisional or temporary appointment list of such class. Any such temporary appointment shall be terminated
whenever the first person becomes available for appointment from the regular list.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-4)
(E) Firemen and officers to continue to hold, positions; examinations; promotions. Any fulltime fireman
except those on probation who is serving upon the Fire Department upon the adoption of the civil service system
in any municipality shall be deemed to be a permanent member of the civil service system without examination
or other acts on their part as if such person had been permanently appointed thereto under civil service after
examination and investigation. The officers of such Fire Department shall continue to hold the positions that
they held at the time of the adoption of the civil system; until examinations are held. Examinations shall be held
within 2 years of adoption of civil service. system. Provided, however, that to be eligible for promotion beyond
such rank they shall be required to take the civil service examinations for promotion.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-5)
(F) Tenure; reasons or grounds for removal, discharge, suspension or demotion. The tenure of anyone
holding an office, place or position or employment under the provisions of this section shall be only during good
behavior, and any such person may be removed, discharged or suspended, suspended without pay, demoted or
reduced in rank, for the following reasons:
(1) Any fireman may be suspended without pay not to exceed 30 days, demoted or reduced in rank,
or fined not exceeding $50 for the violation of the written rules and regulations of the Commission. Any fine so
levied shall be paid into the firemen’s pension fund.
(2) A fireman may be suspended for more than 30 days or may be removed only upon 1 of the
following grounds:
(a) Drunkenness or the use of narcotics while on duty to such an extent that the use thereof
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee and which prevents the employee
from properly performing the functions and duties of any position under civil service;
(b) Willful failure to carry out the direct lawful orders of a superior officer;
(c) Failure to report for duty at the time scheduled without giving notice of inability to report:
provided, however, that such failure to report is not caused by sudden illness, accident or other circumstances
beyond his or her control that would prevent him or her from giving such notice;
(d) Failure to report for duty when directly ordered to do so: provided, that the fireman is well
and able to carry out his or her duties. Examination and opinion of any physician appointed by the Commission
shall be conclusive in this regard;
(e) Solicitation or acceptance of a bribe;
(f) Conviction of a felony;
(g) Willful and repeated violations of the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission:
provided, however, that repeated violations shall be the conviction of more than 2 violations in any 1 year; and
(h) Cowardice while on duty.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-6)
(G) Removal, discharge, suspension or demotion of persons in classified service; procedures; appeal.
(1) No person in the classified civil service who shall have been permanently appointed or inducted

into civil service under provisions of this section, shall be removed, suspended, demoted or discharged except
for cause, and only upon the written accusation of the appointing power, or any citizen or taxpayer, a written
statement of which accusation, in general terms, shall be served upon the accused, and a duplicate filed with the
Commission. The Chief of the Fire Department may suspend a member pending the confirmation of the
suspension by the regular appointing power under the section which must be within 3 days. Any person so
removed, suspended, demoted or discharged may, within 10 days from the time of his or her removal,
suspension, demotion or discharge, file with the Commission a written demand for an investigation, whereupon
the Commission shall conduct such investigation. The investigation shall be confined to the determination of the
question of whether such removal, suspension, demotion or discharge was or was not made for political or
religious reasons, and was or was not made in good faith for cause. After such investigation, the Commission
may, if in its estimation the evidence is conclusive, affirm the removal, or if it shall find that the removal,
suspension, or demotion was made for political or religious reasons, or was not made in good faith for cause,
shall, order immediate reinstatement or reemployment of such person in the office, place, position or
employment from which such person was removed, suspended, demoted or discharged, which reinstatement
shall, if the Commission so provides in its discretion, be retroactive, and entitle such person to pay or
compensation from the time of such removal, suspension, demotion or discharge. The Commission, upon such
investigation in lieu of affirming the removal, suspension, demotion or discharge, may modify the order of
removal, suspension, demotion or discharge by directing a suspension without pay for a given period; and
subsequent restoration of duty, or demotion in classification, grade, or pay, the findings of the Commission shall
be certified, in writing, to the appointing power, and shall be forthwith enforced by such officer.
(2) All investigations made by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be by
public hearing, after reasonable notice to the accused of the time and place of such hearing, at which hearing the
accused shall be afforded an opportunity of appearing in person and by counsel, and presenting his or her
defense. If such judgment or order be concurred in by the Commission or a majority thereof, the accused may
appeal therefrom to the circuit court of the county wherein he or she resides. Such appeal shall be taken by
serving the Commission, within 30 days after the entry of such judgment or order, a written notice of appeal,
stating the grounds thereof, and demanding that a certified transcript of the record and of all papers on file in the
office of the Commission affecting or relating to such judgment or order, be filed by the Commission with such
court. The commission shall, within 10 days, after the filing of such notice, make, certify and file such transcript
with such court. The circuit court shall thereupon proceed to hear and determine such appeal in a summary
manner: provided, however, that such hearing be confined to the determination of whether the judgment or order
of removal, discharge, demotion or suspension made by the Commission, was or was not made in good faith for
cause, and no appeal to such court shall be taken except upon such ground or grounds.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-7)
(H) Inspection of city books or records by Commission. It shall be the duty of all officers and employees
of any such city to aid in all proper ways of carrying out the provisions of this section, and such rules and
regulations as may, from time to time, be prescribed by the Commission thereunder and to afford the
Commission, its members and employees, all reasonable facilities and assistance to inspect all books, papers,
documents and accounts applying or in any way appertaining to any and all offices, places, positions and
employments, subject to civil service, and also to produce the books, papers, documents and accounts, and
attend and testify, whenever required so to do by the Commission or any Commissioner: provided, however, that
nothing in this section shall be construed so as to require, nor permit the inspection of the books or the records of
the firefighters’ union.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-8)
(I) Filling of vacancies: temporary appointees; probationary period; procedures.
(1) Whenever a position in the classified service becomes vacant, the appointing power shall make
requisition upon the Commission for the name and address of a person eligible for appointment thereto. The
Commission shall certify the name of the person highest on the eligible list for the class to which the vacant
position has been allocated, who is willing to accept employment. If there is no appropriate eligible list for the
class, the Commission shall certify the name of the person standing highest on the list held appropriate for such
class. If more than 1 vacancy is to be filled, an additional name shall be certified for each additional vacancy.
The appointing power shall forthwith appoint such person to such vacant position.
(2) Whenever requisition is to be made, or whenever a position is held by a temporary appointee and
an eligible list for the class of such position exists, the Commission shall forthwith certify the name of the person
eligible for appointment to the appointing power, and the appointing power shall forthwith appoint the person so

certified to the position. No person so certified shall be laid off; suspended, or given leave of absence from duty,
transferred or reduced in pay or grade except for reasons which will promote the good of the service, specified in
writing, and after an opportunity to be heard by the Commission and then only with its consent and approval.
(3) To enable the appointing power to exercise a choice in the filling of positions, no appointment,
employment or promotion in any position in the classified service shall be deemed complete until after the
expiration of a period of 6 to 12 months’ probationary service, as may be provided in the rules of the Civil
Service Commission during which the appointing power may terminate the employment of the person certified
to him or her, or it, if during the performance test thus afforded, upon observation or consideration of the
performance of duty, the appointing power deems him or her unfit or unsatisfactory for service in the
Department. Whereupon the appointing power shall designate the person certified as standing next highest on
any such list and such person shall likewise enter upon the duties until some person is found who is deemed fit
for appointment, employment or promotion for the probationary period provided herefor, whereupon the
appointment, employment or promotion shall be deemed to be complete: provided, however, that no person shall
receive a permanent appointment unless he or she is accepted as a permanent member by the Board of Trustees
of the firemen’s pension fund and any person who fails to be accepted by the pension fund at the end of the
probationary period shall be forthwith discharged, upon receipt of a resolution of the pension fund trustees that
the person is unfit physically or mentally for permanent employment.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-9)
(J) Promotions: examinations; seniority; required rank; review. All promotions shall be made pursuant to
written and oral examinations and based upon seniority. Seniority shall count for 60% of the eligibility for
promotion, 1/4 of a point shall be given for each month of service including probationary period up to a
maximum of 60 points, the written examination for 30% and the oral examination for 10%; provided, however,
that no candidate for promotion shall be considered who fails to achieve a passing score, as defined by the
Commission or examining officer, on the written examination.
(1) All promotions to any rank shall be from the next immediate lower rank and provided that the
person to be promoted shall have qualified in time of service as designated by the Commission; provided,
however, that the Chief of the Fire Department be appointed in the manner expressed in division (C) of this
section.
(2) All applicants for promotion shall be given an identical examination in the presence of each other,
which promotional examination shall be entirely in writing, and all of the questions asked therein shall be
prepared and composed in such a manner that the grading of the examination papers can be promptly completed
immediately after the holding of the examination. When 1 of the applicants taking an examination for promotion
has completed his or her answers, the grading of such examination shall begin, and all of the examination papers
shall be graded as they are completed, at the place where the examination is given and in the presence of any
applicants who wish to remain during the grading. Each applicant shall have the opportunity to examine his or
her examination and his or her answers thereto together with the grading thereof and if dissatisfied, shall, within
5 days, appeal the same to the Commission for review.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-10)
(K) Power of appointment and to fix compensation not infringed. All officers, places, positions and
employments coming within the purview of this chapter, shall be created by the person or group of persons who,
acting singly, or in conjunction, as a Mayor, Chief, Common Council, Commission or otherwise, is or are vested
by law at and prior to the taking effect of this law, with power and authority to select, appoint, or employ any
person coming within the purview of this section, and nothing herein contained shall infringe upon the power
and authority of any such person or group of persons, or appointing power, to fix the salaries and compensation
of all employees employed hereunder.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-11)
(L) Certificate of Commission required for payment of compensation. No treasurer, auditor, comptroller
or other officer or employee of any city, town, or municipality in which this section is effective, shall approve
the payment of or be in any manner concerned in paying, auditing or approving any salary wage or other
compensation for services, to any person subject to the jurisdiction and scope of this chapter, unless a payroll,
estimate or account for such salary, wage or other compensation containing the names of persons to be paid, the
amount to be paid to each such person, the services on account of which same is paid, and any other information
which, in the judgment of the Civil Service Commission, should be furnished on the payroll, bears the certificate
of the Civil Service Commission or of its secretary or other duly authorized agent, that the persons named in

such payroll, estimate or account have been appointed or employed in compliance with the terms of this section
and with the rules of the Commission, and that the payroll, estimate or account is, so far as known to the
Commission, a true and accurate statement. The Commission shall refuse to certify the pay of any public officer
or employee whom it finds to be illegally or improperly appointed, and may further refuse to certify the pay of
any public officer or employee who shall willfull or through culpable negligence violate or fail to comply with
this section or with the rules of the Commission.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-12)
(M) Leave of absence without pay: temporary employment. Leave of absence, without pay, may be granted
by any appointing power to any person under civil service: provided, that such appointing power shall give
notice or such leave to the Commission. All temporary employment caused by leaves of absence shall be made
from the eligible list of the classified civil service.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-13)
(N) Enforcement of chapter and rules. The Commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may
be necessary for the proper enforcement of this section and of the rules of the Commission. The Commission
shall be represented in such suits by the chief legal officer of the city, but the Commission may in any case be
represented by special counsel appointed by it.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-14)
(O) Denial of applicant’s rights prohibited. No Commissioner or any other person shall, by himself or
herself or in cooperation with 1 or more persons, defeat, deceive, or obstruct any person in respect of his or her
right of examination or registration according to the rules and regulations of this section, or falsely mark, grade,
estimate or. report upon the examination of proper standing of any person examined, registered or certified
pursuant to the provisions of this section, or aid in so doing, or make any false representation concerning the
same, or concerning the person examined, or furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined, registered or certified, or to be
examined, registered or certified, or persuade any other person, or permit or aid in any manner other person to
impersonate him or her in connection with examination or registration or application or request to be examined
or registered.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-15)
(P) Political contributions or services barred. No person holding any office, place, position, or
employment subject to civil service, shall be under any obligation to contribute to any political fund or to render
any political service to any person or party whatsoever, and no person shall be removed, reduced in grade, or
salary, or otherwise prejudiced for refusing to do so. No public officer, whether elected or appointed, shall
discharge, promote, demote or in any manner change the official rank, employment, or compensation of any
person under civil service, or promise or threaten to do so, for giving or withholding, or neglecting to make any
contribution of money, or services, or any other valuable thing, for any political purpose.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-16)
(Q) Offices, supplies and equipment and clerical assistance for Commission. The duly constituted
authorities of each and every city coming within the purview of this section, shall provide the Commission with
suitable and convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated and lighted and
supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry on the business of the Commission and with
such clerical assistance as may be necessary, all of which is to be commensurate with the number of persons in
each such city coming within the purview of this section.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-17)
(R) Commission to implement chapter; failure to do so as violation. Each Commission appointed subject
to the provisions of this section, shall immediately organize and see to it that the provisions thereof are carried
into effect, and to this end make suitable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the purpose of this section,
for the purpose of putting the provisions thereof into effect; and the failure upon the part of the Commission or
any individual member thereof to do so. shall be deemed a violation of this section, and shall be punishable as
such.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-18)
(S) Violations. A person who knowingly violates this section commits a Class A misdemeanor.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-19)

(T) Definitions. As used in this section, the following mentioned terms shall have the following described
meanings.
(1) The term “commission” means the Civil Service Commission herein created, and the term
“commissioners” means any 1 of the 3 Commissioners of that Commission.
(2) The term “appointing power” includes every person or group of persons who, acting singly or in
conjunction, as a Mayor, Common Council, Commission, or otherwise, is or are, vested by law with power and
authority to select, appoint, or employ any person to hold any office, place, position or employment subject to
civil service.
(3) The term “appointment” includes all means of selection, appointing or employing any person to
hold any office, place, position or employment subject to civil service.
(4) The term “city” includes all cities, towns, and municipalities having a full paid Fire Department,
or a Fire Department having paid members.
(5) The term “full paid Fire Department or Fire Department having paid members” means a Fire
Department the officers and firemen employed in which are paid regularly by the city and devote their whole
time to firefighting.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-20)
(U) Adoption of Civil Service system in a certain city: procedures. The Civil Service system provided for
in this chapter may be adopted in a city having a population of more than 100,000 but less than 125,000 in a
county of 3 or more second class cities only through the procedures set forth in this section.
(1) Not later than 60 days after the passage of this law, the Board of Public Works and Safety of a
city shall give at least a 1 weeks’ notice to all active members of the city fire force that a meeting will be held of
the members for the purpose of adopting or rejecting the merit plan set forth in this section. Such notice shall be
given by the Board by posting the same in prominent places in the central fire station, and which notice shall
designate the time, place and purpose of the meeting. Members of such Department who are unable to attend any
meeting for the purpose of adopting or rejecting the merit plan set forth in this section may vote by virtue of a
written proxy: provided, that no member shall vote more than 1 proxy vote besides his or her own vote, and all
voting shall be by secret written ballot. In such meeting, 1 member of the fire force shall be selected as
Chairperson, and no one shall be entitled to be present at the meeting except active members of the fire force.
(2) If a majority of the members of the active fire force voting upon the question shall vote in favor,
the merit plan contained in this chapter shall be in full force and effect as of January 1 next following the taking
of such vote, and appointments to the Civil Service Commission created herein shall be made not later than 60
days from the going into effect of the merit plan contained in this chapter. If the vote upon the question shall be
in the negative, no such proposal shall be put to a vote of the active members of such fire force sooner than 1
year from the day of first holding a meeting for such purpose.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-21)
(V) Conflicting ordinances superseded All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of
this section are hereby declared superseded insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this section.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-22)
(W) Effect of chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall he deemed to affect, amend or repeal any portion of
I.C. 19-1-37; I.C. 18-1; and all laws amendatory or supplemental thereto.
(I.C. 19-1-37.5-23)
(X) Declaration of intent. It is the intent of the Common Council through this section to reaffirm former
I.C. §§ 19-1-37.5-1 et seq. as the governing authority of the City of Hobart Civil Service Fire Commission,
subject only to the amendment stated above in division (B) of this section, and to repeal and otherwise render
ineffective any existing ordinances or sections thereof which attempt or have attempted to alter, replace,
substitute, or change such governing authority to that of I.C. § 36-8-3.5 either in whole or in part.
(Ord. 97-13, § 4)
Editor’s note:
Indiana Code 19-1-37.5-1 et seq. was formerly Acts 1972, Pub. L. No. 4, § 1, as amended by Acts 1978,

Pub. L. No. 2,§ 1905 and Acts 1981, Pub. L. No. 184, § 2.

BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.025 CREATED.
The Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire Department of the city is established, which shall be operated
under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 604, § 2)
§ 93.026 DIRECTOR DESIGNATED.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall designate an officer or member of the Fire Department as Director
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention, who shall hold this office at the pleasure of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 604, § 2)
§ 93.027 INSPECTORS; ADDITIONAL MEMBERS’ DUTIES.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall determine the number of inspectors in the Bureau of Fire Prevention
and shall detail members of the Fire Department to duties in the Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 6-4) (Ord. 604, § 2)
§ 93.028 DUTIES.
(A) It shall be the duty of the members of the Bureau of Fire Prevention to enforce all laws, provisions of
this code and other city ordinances covering the following:
(1) The prevention of fires;
(2) The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
(3) The elimination of hazards in existing buildings and structures, including those under
construction;
(4) The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories, schools, hotels, lodging houses,
hospitals, churches, halls, theaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, meet, live or
congregate, from time to time, for any purpose; and
(5) The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
(B) They shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as set forth in other sections of this
code, other ordinances and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 604, § 4)
§ 93.029 OFFICES CREATED; LIEUTENANT AND CAPTAIN; REAPPOINTMENT.
There is created in the Fire Department of the city the positions of Fire Lieutenant and Fire Captain.
Appointments and reappointments to these positions shall be made by the Mayor on the recommendation of the
Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-5.1) (Ord. 769, § 1)
§ 93.030 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.

(A) The Chief of the Fire Department, Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or any inspector may, at
all reasonable hours, enter any building, lodging house or premises, except interiors of private dwellings, within
his or her jurisdiction for the purpose of making any inspection or investigation, which, under the provisions of
this chapter, he or she may deem necessary to be made.
(B) It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect or cause to be inspected by the
Bureau of Fire Prevention or by the Fire Department officers and members, as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, lodging houses and premises, except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions likely to cause fire, or any violations of the provisions or intent of
any provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city affecting the fire hazard.
(C) The Chief of the Fire Department, Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or any inspector specially
designed thereto shall inspect, as often as may be necessary, all especially hazardous manufacturing processes,
storages or installations of gases, chemicals, oils, explosive and flammable materials or interior fire alarm and
automatic sprinkler systems, portable fire extinguishers or other fire extinguishing appliances and such other
hazards or appliances as the Chief of the Fire Department shall designate, and shall issue such order as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the laws, provisions of this code and other city ordinances governing the same
and for safeguarding of life and property from fire.
(D) It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect or cause to be inspected by the
Bureau of Fire Prevention or by the Fire Department officers or members each place of assembly in order to
ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and orders dealing with use of decorations, maintenance of
exitways, collapse of revolving doors and maintenance of fire appliances in such places of assembly. Where
conditions are found to be unsatisfactory, written orders for immediate correction shall be given.
(E) The Chief of the Fire Department, Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or any inspector, upon the
complaint of any person or whenever he or she shall deem it necessary, shall inspect all buildings, lodging
houses and premises within his or her jurisdiction. Whenever any of such officers shall find any building or
other structure which, for want of repairs, lack of sufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus
or fire extinguishing equipment or by reason of a dilapidated condition or from any other cause, is especially
likely to fire, or which is so situated as to endanger other property or the occupants thereof and whenever such
officers shall find, in any building, combustible or explosive matter of flammable conditions dangerous to the
safety of the building or the occupants thereof, he or she shall order such dangerous conditions or materials to be
removed or remedied in such manner as will be specified by the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(Prior Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 604, § 4)

FIRE HAZARDS
§ 93.045 ORDERS TO REMOVE.
Whenever any inspector shall find in any building, lodging house or upon any premises combustible or
explosive matter or dangerous accumulations or rubbish or unnecessary accumulations of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings or any highly flammable materials, and which is so situated as to endanger life or property; or, shall
find obstructions to or on fire escapes to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to
interfere with the operations of the Fire Department or egress of occupants in case of fire, he or she shall order
the same to be removed or remedied.
(Prior Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 604, § 4)
§ 93.046 BUILDING MOVING, DEMOLITION; NOTICE.
Whenever any building, lodging house, wall or other structure or any part thereof shall have been declared
to be a fire hazard and ordered repaired, torn down or removed by the Chief of the Fire Department or the
Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention, it shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to forthwith
notify the Building Official, in writing, of the order, listing the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 604, § 4)

§ 93.047 POSTING OF SIGNS.
In the event any building, lodging house, wall or other structure or any part thereof shall have been declared
to be a fire hazard and ordered repaired, torn down or removed, the Bureau of Fire Inspection shall affix a sign to
the building, wall or structure, which shall be prominently displayed with lettering thereon reading:
“Condemned. By order of the Chief of the Fire Department.” The sign shall remain affixed until removal thereof
is authorized by the Chief of the Fire Department or the Building Official. The removal of such sign without
authorization as aforesaid shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-9) (Ord. 604, § 4) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.048 DISCONNECTION OF DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
When the fire hazard is permitted to continue in existence by the owner or occupant after having received
an order to abate the same, and the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or 1 of the inspectors shall find and
determine from the facts that the danger to human life has been materially increased by defective electrical
wiring, defective appliances, defective gas plumbing or defective gas appliances, the Director or inspector shall
give notice of the defects to the Electrical Inspector or Plumbing Inspector, and if they shall find and determine
that the danger to human life is materially increased, then the Inspector shall disconnect the gas or electrical
services immediately.
(Prior Code, § 6-10) (Ord. 604, § 4)
§ 93.049 SERVICE OF ORDERS; APPEALS.
(A) (1) The service of orders mentioned in this chapter may be made upon the owner, occupant or other
person responsible for the conditions, either by delivering a copy of same personally or by delivering the same to
and leaving it with any person in charge of the premises or by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on
the door to the entrance of the premises.
(2) Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of the premises, the order
may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the order or, if the owner is absent
from the jurisdiction of the officers making the order, by mailing the copy by registered mail to the owner’s last
known post office address.
(B) If buildings, lodging houses or other premises are owned by 1 person and occupied by another under
lease or otherwise, the orders issued in connection with enforcing of this chapter shall apply to the occupant
above, except where the rules or orders require the making of additions to or changes in the premises
themselves, such as would immediately become real estate and be the property of the owner of the premises; in
such case, the rules or orders shall affect the owner and not the occupant unless it is otherwise agreed between
the owner and the occupant.
(C) Any such order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant of the premises, lodging
house or building. If the order is made by the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or 1 of the Inspectors,
the owner or occupant may, within 5 days, appeal to the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall, within 10 days
review the order and file his or her decision thereon and, unless by his or her authority the order is revoked, or
modified, it shall remain in full force and be complied with within the time fixed in such order or decision of the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-11) (Ord. 604, § 5)

FIRE BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 93.060 COMPOSITION.
The Fire Board of Appeals shall consist of the Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention, the city’s

Attorney, the Building Official and 2 members of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-12) (Ord. 604, § 6)
§ 93.061 PROCEDURE; QUORUM.
The Fire Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings and
its actions. The presence of 3 members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 6-13) (Ord. 604, § 6)
§ 93.062 AUTHORITY; TIME LIMITATION.
(A) Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall have reviewed an order of the Director or Inspector
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and filed his or her decision thereon, an appeal from the decision of the Chief of
the Fire Department may be taken to the Fire Board of Appeals.
(B) The Fire Board of Appeals shall only hear appeals from the ruling of the Chief of the Fire Department.
The appeals shall be made within 10 days from the date on which the Chief of the Fire Department has filed his
or her decision on the order before him or her. The appellant shall file with the Bureau of Fire Prevention and
with the Fire Board of Appeals a written notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The Bureau of Fire
Prevention shall, upon receiving notice of the appeal, transfer to the Fire Board of Appeals all documents
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
(Prior Code, § 6-14) (Ord. 604, § 6)
§ 93.063 POWERS.
(A) The Fire Board of Appeals is empowered and authorized to modify any of the provisions of orders
issued pursuant to this chapter upon application, in writing, by the owner, lessee or his or her duly authorized
agent, where there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter; provided
that, the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of the modification, when granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Board of Appeals, shall be
entered upon the records, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(B) (1) The Fire Board of Appeals is empowered and authorized to modify any of the provisions of this
chapter where there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter; provided
that, the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
(2) The decision of the Fire Board of Appeals shall be complied with within the time fixed in the
order by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-15) (Ord. 604, §§ 4,6)
§ 93.064 FURTHER APPEALS.
(A) Any owner or occupant who feels himself or herself aggrieved by any order or affirmed order of the
Fire Board of Appeals may, within 10 days after the making or affirming of any such order, file his or her
petition with the Circuit Court or Superior Court of Lake County, praying a review of the order.
(B) It shall be the duty of the courts to hear the same on the first convenient day and to make the order in
the premises as right and justice may require.
(C) The decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 6-16) (Ord. 604, § 6)

SMOKE DETECTORS

§ 93.080 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
MOBILE HOME RENTAL. Any mobile home or trailer occupied by or offered for occupancy to an
individual as a residence on a rental basis.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains living quarters for 2 or more
occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses, sleeping room houses, buildings of mixed
occupancy, having any residential units, nursing homes, convalescent homes, licensed halfway houses or
lodging houses.
SLEEPING AREA. The area of a unit in which bedrooms or sleeping rooms are located. Bedrooms or
sleeping rooms separated by another use area such as a kitchen or living room are separate sleeping areas, but
bedrooms or sleeping rooms separated by a bathroom are not separate sleeping areas.
SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects particles or products of combustion other than heat,
approved by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., or Factory Mutual, equipped with a test button, and may be either
battery powered, minimum 9 volt or 110 volt AC.
(Prior Code, § 6-31) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.081 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
All multiple-family dwelling units and all mobile home rentals shall be equipped with smoke detectors.
(Prior Code, § 6-32) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.082 LOCATION.
Smoke detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point centrally located in the corridor or area
giving access to the rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where a common hallway is used, smoke detectors shall
be spaced not more than 25 feet apart in such hallway. All smoke detectors shall be located either on the ceiling,
not less than 6 inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than 6, nor more than 12 inches from the ceiling, and
within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping purposes. No detector shall be recessed into the ceiling.
(Prior Code, § 6-33) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.083 INSTALLATION.
If a smoke detector is AC powered, it must be directly attached to a junction box not controlled by any
switch other than the main power supply. The installation of AC powered detectors shall conform to all electrical
standards adopted by the city. A smoke detector required under this subchapter shall be installed according to the
directions and specifications of the manufacturer, but if in conflict with any city electrical standard, the city
electrical standard shall take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 6-34) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.084 MAINTENANCE.
(A) (1) It is unlawful for any person to tamper or remove any smoke detector except when it is necessary
for maintenance or inspection purposes.
(2) Any smoke detector removed for repair or replacement must be reinstalled or replaced so that it is
in place during normal sleeping hours.
(B) At every change of tenant in every multiple-family dwelling unit or mobile home rental, smoke
detectors shall be tested to see that they are in operable condition.

(Prior Code, § 6-35) (Ord. 1816, (part)) Penalty, see § 93.999
§ 93.085 RESPONSIBILITY.
(A) Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple-family dwelling unit or mobile home rental shall be
responsible for the installation and maintenance of all smoke detectors.
(B) This requirement applies to smoke detectors required by any state or federal law as well as by this
subchapter, unless otherwise required by state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 6-36) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.086 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
(A) Between January 1 and January 31 each year, the owner of each dwelling unit and mobile home in
which a smoke detector has been installed shall certify, in writing, on forms prescribed by the city to the Fire
Prevention Bureau of the Hobart Fire Department that the required maintenance has been performed on all
detectors in the owner’s units and that the detectors are in good working condition as of the date of certification.
(B) Each owner shall certify to each new occupant of any dwelling unit and mobile home covered by this
subchapter that all smoke detectors required have been installed and are in proper working condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-37) (Ord. 1816, (part))
§ 93.087 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
The Building Department and the Fire Department of the city shall be charged with the duty of enforcing
the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-38) (Ord. 1816, (part))

RECOVERY OF FIRE PROTECTION COSTS
§ 93.100 RECOVERY OF FIRE PROTECTION COSTS.
(A) Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-103(d), the costs for the production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery or
furnishing of water for public fire protection purposes (“fire protection costs”) shall be included in the basic rates
and charges of all customers of Indiana American Water Company, Inc. (“IAWC”) located within the City of
Hobart in the manner and to the extent permitted by statute.
(B) Effective upon the date of this change in the manner of recovering fire protection costs, IAWC shall
cease directly billing the City of Hobart for fire protection costs other than charges for the construction cost for
new hydrants installed on and after the date of the change, as provided in I.C. 8-1-2-103(d).
(C) Notwithstanding this change in the recovery of fire protection costs, the construction cost of any fire
hydrants installed at the request of the City of Hobart shall continue to be paid for by or on behalf of the City of
Hobart.
(Ord. 2005-39, § 1)

§ 93.999 PENALTY.
(A) (1) The imposition of a penalty for any violation of this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time. When not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.

(2) The application of a penalty for the violation of this chapter shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-30) (Ord. 604, § 10)
(B) Anyone found in violation of §§ 93.080 et seq., upon conviction, shall be fined in the amount of not
less than $100, nor more than $1,000, for each violation. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 6-39) (Ord. 1816, (part))

