CHAPTER 10. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
10.07
10.08
10.09
10.10
10.11
10.12
10.13
10.14
10.15
10.16

Title of code
Interpretation
Application to future ordinances
Construction of code
Rules of interpretation; definitions
Severability
Reference to other sections
Reference to offices; name designations
Errors and omissions
Reasonable time
Repeal or modification of code section
Limitation periods
Ordinances unaffected
Ordinances which amend or supplement code
Section histories; statutory references
Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities

10.99

General penalty

§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
(A) All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised, codified, rearranged,
renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated
as the “City of Hobart Municipal Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted.
(B) Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same rules of construction,
definition and application shall govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted
amending or supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
(A) This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect,
as if it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.

(B) The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not resolve a conflict between 2 or
more sections.
(C) Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by reference to the dates that the
sections were originally enacted. The section most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or
division.
(D) All references within a section of this code to any section of previously existing laws refer to the
numbers in the original enactment.
(E) (1) The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to the various titles, chapters,
subchapters or sections of this code, as originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be
altered by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official publication, to more clearly
indicate its content. These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the
meaning, application or construction of the law they precede.
(2)

Each note following a section of this code is for reference purposes only and is not a part of the

section.
(F) All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent amendments to that section, unless
otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)

§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
(A) Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following rules unless the construction is
plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or context of the provision.
(1) Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual sense. Technical words and
phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
(2) Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be construed as imputing authority to
a majority of the persons, unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
(3) Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy may perform in
addition to the principal, the performance of the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
(4) Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter
genders; words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use
of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
(B) Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Hobart.
COUNCIL. The Common Council.
COUNTY. Lake County, Indiana.
HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly provided.

MONTH. One calendar month.
PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee,
receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms
PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this code, refer to the
sections or divisions next following or next preceding that in which the words occur, unless some other section
is designated.
WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of representing words
and letters. Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the
person or the person’s mark.
YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
(A) If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the
invalid section or application.
(B) Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a non-severability provision, each
division or part of every section is severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
(1) The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and so dependent upon the
invalid provision or application that it cannot be presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without
the invalid provision or application; or
(2) The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the legislative
intent without the invalid provision or application.
(C) This section applies to every section of this code regardless of whether a section was enacted before or
after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the reference shall extend and apply to
the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
(A) Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any office,
officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the
provision, irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(B) Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council refers to any board, bureau,

commission, division, department, officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that
name designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or subsequent thereto,
the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or instrumentality, whether
correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any words; the omission of any word or
words necessary to express the intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly intended to
express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words
were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
(A) In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a reasonable time or requires reasonable
notice to be given, “reasonable time or notice” shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
(B) The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the
first day and including the last. If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or law adopted prior to the
enactment of this code, the former section or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the
repealing section so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes
of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice contained in any law, whether
applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and
forfeitures, contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected by the repeal and
reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for causes arising or acts committed prior to the
effective date of this code may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference: Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced
in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.

§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
(A) If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter or
section shall be specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
(B) Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new chapter or section shall indicate,
with reference to the arrangement of this code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in
concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
(A) As histories for the code sections, the specific number and section of the original ordinance, and
amending ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, § 1; Ord. 15, §
3; Ord. 20, § 1; Ord. 25, § 2)
(B) (1) If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text of the section reads
substantially the same as the statute. Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
(2) If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all public records,
unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference: Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.

(C) If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of ordinances of the city published in a prior
year and subsequently amended, the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, § )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of this code shall be prosecuted and
remain punishable as provided by those laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities, proceedings and rights are
continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way, contracts entered
into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.

§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
(A) Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be subject to the following:
(1) A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
(2) A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations, except for violations of

ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
(B) A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
Statutory reference:
Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)

