CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT POLICIES

SECTION
33.01
33.02
33.03
33.04
33.05
33.06
33.07

Compensation
Bonds
Employee Fund Provisions
Fact Finding
Public Employees Retirement Fund
Expenses for Municipal Promotion
Use of Credit Cards by City Officials and Employees

33.01 COMPENSATION
(a)
Compensation for city officials and employees shall be as set, annually, by
legislative authority.
(b)
The City of Richmond, through its Mayor and respective boards, may
adopt and develop personnel policies to govern the actions and benefits accruing
to city employees under their control.
(c)
Such personnel policies may establish fringe benefits, such as insurance,
holiday, vacation, sick leave, personal leave, and bereavement benefits, which
shall not be considered as additional compensation beyond what is set forth in
the salary ordinance. (Ord. 40-1986)
33.02 BONDS
(a) The following city officers shall give bond in the amount indicated before
commencing their official duties:
City Clerk

$ 30,000

City Controller

$ 30,000

Each clerk employed in the City Clerk’s or City Controller’s offices shall
give a bond which shall be payable to the Clerk or Controller, as the case
may be, in addition to the State of Indiana.
$ 1,000
City Engineer

$ 1,000

Weights and Measures Inspector

$ 1,000

Superintendent of Richmond Power and Light

$ 5,000

(b)
Bonds of other city officials shall be as fixed by the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
(c)
All bonds shall be secured by a reliable surety company and approved by
the Mayor, and shall be payable to the City of Richmond, except that of the City
Treasurer which shall be payable to the State of Indiana.
(d)
The bond of the City Controller shall include funds collected by him under
the Barrett Law. (‘72 Code, 3.01) (Ord. passed 1-17-16; Ord. 811-1925; Ord.
1469-1952)
33.03 EMPLOYEE FUND PROVISIONS
(a)
For provisions governing social security coverage for public employees,
see I.C. 5-10.1 et seq.
(b)
For provisions governing public retirement and disability benefits, see I.C.
5-10.2 et seq.
(c)
For provisions governing the public employees retirement fund, see I.C. 510.3 et seq.
33.04 EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (Ord. 45-2000)
(a)
General – The City Of Richmond shall adhere to Indiana law and engage
in Permissive Collective Bargaining. Specifically, each City Administration,
through its Mayor and/or respective boards, may or may not elect to recognize
collective bargaining for employees within any City Department. (It is
acknowledged that as of the date of this Code Section revision, such recognition
has been provided to the Police Department, Fire Department, and Public
Transportation division of the Roseview Transit.) In conjunction with this
recognition of Indiana law, the City also recognizes that for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare, Indiana law does not allow for the right of any
City employee to strike or engage in any work stoppage or slow down.
(b)
Procedures to Establish Collective Bargaining - In order to request
collective bargaining or appoint an agent to serve as their exclusive bargaining
agent, the following procedures shall be used by the employees of any City
department.
(1) Request for Bargaining Agent – A request for an exclusive bargaining
agent may be commenced by the employees of any City department
through a Petition to Initiate Collective Bargaining presented to the Mayor
and signed by at least 30% of the projected covered employees within
that department.

Such petition shall identify the requested bargaining agent
(i.e. union) and shall describe the type of employees t be covered by the
representation. It is recognized and acknowledged that no “supervisory”
or “managerial” employee shall be eligible for representation. (For
purposes of this subsection and the definitions of “supervisory” or
“managerial” employee, the City shall adopt those definitions set forth by
the National Labor Relation act and federal law; provided, for purposes of
recognition within the fire and police departments, the current contract
terms for applicability shall apply.)

(2) Oversight Panel – Upon receipt of the Petition to Initiate Collective
Bargaining, a three member Oversight Panel shall be appointed to
oversee the agent selection process and the election which shall take
place to determine whether an exclusive bargaining agent is desired and,
if so, who is the desired agent. The Panel shall consist of one member
appointed by the Mayor to represent the City Administration; one member
appointed by the proposed bargaining agent (i.e.: union); and a potentially
affected employee from the subject department, who shall be selected by
Common Council. All appointments shall be residents of the City and
shall serve without compensation, except for any reimbursement of
expenses. All appointments shall be made within 15 days from receipt of
the original Petition. (If more than one union is attempting to be chosen
as the bargaining agent, the selection of the union representative to the
Panel must be agreed upon by all proposed union organizations.)
Upon its appointment, the Oversight Panel shall attempt to monitor
all presentation of material provided to the affected employees either from
the proposed bargaining agent and/or the City officials. It is the intent of
this Code section and process that all discussion be open and fair; that no
pressure tactics be taken by either an agent or the City to affect any vote
on collective bargaining; and that absolutely no retaliation be taken or
threatened by either the proposed agent, the City or other employees
regarding the selection process.

(3) Election – Within 45 days after receipt of the initial Petition, an election
shall take place among the eligible department employees to determine if
an exclusive bargaining agent is desired and if so, who shall serve as
such agent. The specific date, place, and method of voting – subject to
the provisions herein – shall e determined by the Oversight Panel. At
least 15 days prior to the election, the City shall provide to the proposed
agent and to all members of the Panel a list of the names of the eligible
employees. In order to be eligible, the employee must be a fulltime
employee within the subject department as of the date of the elections.

The final list of the employees which would be eligible and affected by the
vote shall be determined by the Oversight Panel prior to the election.
The election shall be conducted by secret, written ballot and the
choices thereon shall include the names of the proposed bargaining
agents (unions) and the choice not to be represented by any exclusive
agent. The election and counting of ballots shall be conducted by the
Oversight Panel.
In order to be presented as an exclusive bargaining agent, a union
organization must receive a majority vote of all eligible employees. If
more than one union is involved in a vote and no one union receives such
majority vote, but when taken together, a majority of eligible employees
have requested to be represented by a union, a second vote shall be
taken pursuant to the same provisions herein and the name of any union
receiving a vote by a majority of the eligible employees shall be presented
to the City Administration.
(4) Recognition – Upon an affirmative majority vote to have an exclusive
bargaining agent, the Mayor (or statutory board which controls the hiring
and selection of the employees within the subject department) shall
determine if recognition is to be given to the successful agent to serve as
the bargaining agent. This decision shall be made within 20 days after
the election. Such recognition shall continue until a decertification vote
taken pursuant to the terms herein establishes that the affected
employees no longer wish to be represented by the named bargaining
agent, or until such time Common Council, through normal ordinance
procedure, elects not to recognize an exclusive bargaining agent for the
subject affected employees; provided, any future non-recognition shall
have no effect on any contract entered into during the period of
recognition. (It is acknowledged that as of the date of this Code Section
revision, such recognition has been provided to the Police Department,
Fire Department, and Public Transportation division of the Roseview
Transit.)
(5) Decertification – Upon a Petition signed by at least 30% of the affected
employees, a decertification of a previously selected bargaining agent
may be initiated at any time and the same process as described above
shall be utilized. In order to decertify or remove a previously selected
bargaining agent, an affirmative vote of at least the majority of all eligible
employees shall be required.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, a
Petition to Initiate Collective Bargaining or to decertify a bargaining agent
bay not be made more than one time in any calendar year.

(6)
“Union Shop” Agreement – Notwithstanding the terms of this Code
Section, no provisions of any contract to be entered into between the City
and any City employees or their bargaining agent shall include the
requirement that all affected employees within the subject department
must be a member of the selected union in order to be employed by the
City.
(c )
Negotiation/Fact-Finding – In the event a bargaining agent has been
chosen to represent certain employees and such agent has been recognize3d,
this subsection shall apply.
(1)
Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
(A) “CORPORATE AUTHORITIES” – The proper officials within the
City Administration whose duty it is to establish the wages,
salaries, rates of pay, hours, working conditions and other terms
and conditions of employment of members of its various
departments, who shall consist of three members appointed by the
Mayor of Richmond.
(B) “FACT-FINDING PANEL” – A panel of five persons, all of whom
shall be residents of the City, two selected by the corporate
authorities, with approval of Common Council, and two selected by
the bargaining agent. The fifth member shall be selected by
majority vote of the other four members. The panel members shall
not be employees of the City or members of any of its
departments, boards, or commissions.
(C) “RECOGNIZED BARGAINING AGENT” – Any bargaining agent
which has been established and recognized pursuant to the terms
of this Code.
(2)
It shall be the obligation of the corporate authorities and the
bargaining agent to meet and bargain in good faith beginning the first day
of June prior to the year in which the Contract shall become effective.
(3)
In the event that the bargaining agent and the corporate authorities
are unable within 60 days from and including the date of their first
meeting, to reach an agreement on wages, salaries, hours, working
conditions, any and all unresolved issues shall, upon request of the
corporate authorities or the bargaining agent, be submitted to the Factfinding Panel.

(4)
The Fact-finding Panel shall be selected within 15 days from the
date of request referred to in (3) above. The bargaining agent and the
corporate authorities shall each select and name two fact-finders and
shall immediately thereafter notify each other in writing of the names and
addresses of the persons so selected. The four fact-finders so selected
and names, shall, within five days from and after the expiration of the 15
day period hereinbefore mentioned, select and name a fifth person. This
person shall serve as Chairperson of the Fact-finding Panel. Reasonable
fees and necessary expenses of arbitration shall be borne equally by the
bargaining agent and the City.
(5)
The Fact-finding Panel shall, acting through its Chairperson, call a
hearing within five days after the date of the appointment of the
Chairperson, and shall, acting through its Chairperson, give at least seven
days notice in writing to each of the other four fact-finders, the bargaining
agent, and the corporate authorities of the time and place of the hearing.
The hearing shall be informal and the rules of evidence prevailing in
judicial proceedings shall not be binding. Any and all documentary
evidence and other data deemed relevant by the fact-finders may be
received in evidence. The Fact-finding Panel shall have access to all
books, records, and other evidence relative or pertinent to the issues
presented to them for the purpose of determining the facts and the
submitting of recommendations. The hearing conducted by the Factfinding Panel shall have access to all books, records, and other evidence
relative or pertinent to the issues presented to them for the purpose of
determining the facts and the submitting of recommendations. The
hearing conducted by the Fact-finding Panel shall be concluded within 10
days of the time of commencement, and within five days after the
conclusions of the hearings, the Panel shall make written findings and
written recommendations upon the issues presented, a copy of which
shall be presented to the bargaining agent and the corporate authorities
at a public meeting. Any hearings held by the Fact-finding Panel must be
open at all times for the purpose of permitting members of the public to
observe and record them. Any findings and recommendations they make
are public record open to public inspection provided by any applicable
statute relating to fact-finding in connection with public collective
bargaining.
(6)
The Fact-finding Panel shall conduct the hearing and render their
decisions upon the basis of a prompt, peaceful, and just settlement of
wage or hour disputes between the bargaining agent and the corporate
authorities. The fact, among others, to be given weight by the Factfinding Panel shall include but not be limited to:

(A) Interest and welfare of the general public and taxpayers,
including:
(i) The fiscal status of the City, in light of anticipated and
realized expenditures and revenues
(ii) Comparison of wages, salaries, rates of pay, hours,
working conditions, and other terms and conditions of
employment among public employees of the City; and
similar public employees in other Indiana cities of similar
size.
(iii) The City’s pension fund obligations
(B) Comparison of wages, rates, or hourly conditions of public
employment with prevailing wage rates of hourly conditions in
private industry and commerce for similar positions and skill
levels, together with all other benefits as pensions, insurance,
and so forth
(C) Comparison of peculiarities of employment in regard to other
trades or professions, specifically:
(i) Hazards of employment
(ii) Physical qualifications
(iii) Educational qualifications
(iv) Mental qualifications
(v) Job training and skills
(7)

The Corporate authorities shall, within five days after the receipt of
the formal report of the Fact-finding Panel, establish final
negotiation meetings with the bargaining agent for a final effort to
resolve issues. Absent an agreed resolution, the
recommendations of the Fact-finding Panel shall then be submitted
to Common Council, which shall vote on the recommendations of
the Fact-finding Panel. The recommendations of the Fact-finding
Panel shall become effective upon a majority vote of the Common
Council approving the recommendations. If Common Council does
not approve the recommendations of the Fact-finding Panel, then
the recommendations are to be re-submitted to the Fact-finding
Panel and shall follow the process set forth in Paragraph (5) above

and, this paragraph, Paragraph (7), until a majority vote of
Common Council is obtained.
(8)

All matters which have been agreed upon by the parties, excepting
budgetary items which must be passed by ordinance of the
Common Council, shall be reduced to writing and shall be effective
for the period agreed by the parties.

33.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT FUND
(a)
The city elects to become a participant in the Public Employees
Retirement Fund as established by I.C. 5-10.3 et seq. and all acts amendatory
and supplemental thereto.
(b)

The city agrees to make the contribution required under state statute.

(c)
The following are declared to be covered by the fund: all full-time
employees of the city, including full-time elected public officials, and excluding
policemen and firemen. It is determined that members of Common Council and
the Judge of the City Court are not full-time employees and therefore are not
covered by the fund.
(d)
It is declared that none of the classifications or positions specified in (c)
are compensated on a fee basis or of an emergency nature or in a part-time
category.
(e)
The active participating membership of the city shall begin on January 1,
1966, except full-time elected public officials whose entire participating
membership shall begin on January 1, 1974. (Ord. 2153-1965; Ord. 2866-1973;
Ord. 3176-1977)
Statutory reference:
Social Security Coverage for Public Employees, see I.C. 5-10.1 et seq.
Public Retirement and Disability Benefits, see I.C. 5-10.2 et seq.
Public Employees Retirement Fund, see I.C. 5-10.3 et seq.
33.06 EXPENSES FOR MUNICIPAL PROMOTION
(a)
The Common Council authorizes expenditure of funds from the general
fund of the city to pay the expenses of or to reimburse city officials as the case
may be for expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of the city. These
expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited to, rental of meeting places,
meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in interviewing job
applicants, expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial, and
residential development, expenses incurred in developing relations with other

units of government, and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature
deemed by the Mayor to be in the interest of the city.
(b)
No expenses shall be incurred under this section without prior
authorization of the Mayor and all claims for such expenses shall be approved
by the Mayor and allowed in the regular manner before payment. (Ord. 86-1981)
(c)
Public officials liability insurance shall be obtained by the City of Richmond
on behalf of the Mayor, the City Clerk, all elected officials, including members of
the Common Council, appointed city officials and members of boards and
commissions, and such other employees as may be warranted. (Ord. 86-1981;
Ord. 35-1984)
33.07 USE OF CREDIT CARDS BY CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
(a)
The Government of the City is authorized to use credit cards issued in the
name of the City of Richmond for use only on City-related business.
(b)
The responsibility for the issuance and custody of credit cards shall be
with the City Controller. Credit Cards may be used by a City employee when
authorized by the employee’s Department Head and approved by the City
Controller, and also by elected officials of the City subject to the approval of the
City Controller. The City Controller shall establish regulations concerning the
use of the cards. In each instance of the use of the cards, once the purpose for
which the cards are used is accomplished, the cards shall be returned to the City
Controller.
(c)
The City is authorized to pay any reasonable annual membership fee,
service charge, or renewal charge levied by the credit card issuer.
(d)
No interest, carrying charges, or penalties shall be incurred due to late
payment. In the event of such charges being incurred due to late payments, the
employee or official responsible for the late payment shall bear the charges. All
claims filed in connection with the use of the credit cards must be itemized as
provided in I.C. 5-11-10. A reasonable tip or gratuity is allowable where a
business-related service has been provided. (Ord. 67-1990)

