CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES

SECTION
94.01
94.02
94.03
94.04

Offensive Industries
Swine
Weeds
Storage of Machinery and Parts

Abandoned Vehicles
94.10
94.11
94.12
94.13
94.14

Adoption of State Law
Conformance with State Law
Towing and Storage Charges
Administration
Abandoned Vehicle Account

Smoke
94.30
94.31
94.32
94.33
94.34
94.35
94.36

Dense Smoke Nuisance
Inspection
Permit to Construct Furnace
Responsibility for Violations
Soft Coal Furnaces
Stoking Furnace
Reports; Orders to Remedy Defects

94.40 Real Estate Used For Illegal Sale of Drugs
94.01 OFFENSIVE INDUSTRIES
(a)
No person shall establish or build for use or operation a stockyard or
slaughterhouse within 1/2 mile of a built-up residence section, or within such
distance of a factory, store, church, schoolhouse, or other building where
persons are employed or where they regularly assemble, or within 500 feet of a
public street. This regulation concerning the establishment of a stockyard or
slaughterhouse shall apply whether it is inside of the city, or within a distance of
two miles from the corporate limits thereof.
(b)
No stockyard or slaughterhouse within the above described area which
has not been built and operated prior to December 1, 1944, shall be used or
operated for the keeping, buying, selling, or slaughtering of livestock.
(c)
This section shall apply to fertilizer plants and other establishments
constructed after February 9, 1945, whose business, trade, or the occupations

connected therewith are of such a character as to make the plant or
establishment noxious or injurious to public comfort or health. (‘72 Code, 11.01)
(Ord. 1283-1944) Penalty, see 10.99
94.02 SWINE
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any live swine within the city except when
they are kept for immediate shipment or immediate slaughter, and are kept in sanitary,
clean, and secure pens within a distance of three city blocks from the corporate limits
of the city. (‘72 Code, 11.02) (Ord. 529-1918) Penalty, see 10.99
94.03 WEEDS
(a)
Owners of real property located within the corporate limits of the City
of Richmond, Indiana, shall cut and remove weeds and other rank vegetation
growing on such property, including street parks, improved sidewalks and
along alleys, unless such vegetation is part of an established agricultural
enterprise and is currently being used for pasture or the production of hay.
(b)
The Department of Metropolitan Development shall be responsible for
the administration of Section 94.03 of the Richmond Code.
(c)
“Weeds” shall be defined as grass and other undesirable, unattractive
or unattended vegetation that are one (1) foot or higher.
(d)
“Rank vegetation” shall be defined as vegetation growing with
excessive luxuriance and vigor which is at least one (1) foot high or higher
and/or overgrown bushes, trees, shrubs, etc. and may also be defined as
dead bushes, trees, shrubs, and/or weeds.
(e)
“Street parks” shall be defined as the planted area between the curb
and sidewalk directly adjacent to a property.
(f)
“Improved sidewalks” shall be defined as sidewalks abutting any lot or
land of an owner or occupant.
(g)

“Continuous Abatement Notice” shall be defined as a notice that:
(1)
is issued for compliance or abatement and that
remains in full force and effect on a property without further
requirements to seek additional compliance and abatement
authority; or seek additional orders for the same or similar
violations; and

(2)
authorizes specific ongoing compliance and
enforcement activities if a property requires re-inspection or
additional periodic abatement; and
(3)
can be enforced, including assessment of fees
and costs, without the need for additional notice or hearing; and
(4)
authorizes the Department of Metropolitan
Development to assess and collect ongoing costs for
continuous abatement notice activities from any party that is
subject to the Department’s notice.
(h)
Weeds and other rank vegetation subject to removal under this code
provision shall be those which are one (1) foot high or higher. All trash and
debris discovered when removing weeds and other rank vegetation must be
removed at the time of mowing. All cut weeds and other cut rank vegetation
left on sidewalks and/or streets must be removed. Property owner must
maintain trees and shrubs within the minimum height clearance requirements
of eight (8) feet over sidewalks and street parks and within the minimum
height clearance requirements of fourteen (14) feet over streets and alleys.
(i)
Any property owner who fails to remove weeds and other rank
vegetation, as defined in Section 94.03(c) and (d), shall be deemed to be in
violation of Section 94.03(a) and may be issued a continuous abatement
notice as set forth in this Section. Notice of violation by the Department of
Metropolitan Development shall be mailed to the property owner’s address
shown on the records of the Wayne County Auditor by the method required
by Indiana Code 36-7-10.1-3, or an equivalent service permitted under IC 11-7-1, to the owner of record of real property with a single owner or to at least
one (1) of the owners of real property with multiple owners, at the last
address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records of the
Wayne County Auditor on the date of the notice. One letter within a calendar
year shall be deemed sufficient notice for each and every lot, parcel, and
lands owned by the offender within the corporate limits of the City in case of
party’s failure to comply with the terms of Section 94.03(a). The City shall
have the right to cut and remove weeds and rank vegetation upon the
property owner’s failure to do so within ten (10) days after the mailing of
notice of violation. A continuous abatement notice may be posted at the
property at the time of abatement in the event the City initially obtains service
upon the property owner as required by IC 36-7-10.1-3. Said continuous
abatement notice shall serve as notice to the real property owner that each
subsequent violation during the same calendar year for which the initial notice
of the violation was provided may be abated by the City or its contractors.
(j)
The Department of Metropolitan Development shall issue a bill to the
property owner at the address shown on the records of the Wayne County

Auditor. The bill shall include the actual cost incurred by the City either by
using its own employees or an independent contractor plus administrative
costs. Administrative costs of $35.00 shall be charged for the first cut order
during a calendar year. Second and subsequent cut orders during a calendar
year shall include the administrative cost of $50.00. If a property owner owns
more than one property, the property owner will be charged the administrative
cost of $35.00 for the first property cut and the administrative cost of $50.00
for each and every lot, parcel and land subsequently cut during the calendar
year. In addition to the above, a property owner may be subject to a fine up
to Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500) per occurrence for violation
of this section.
(k)
In the event a property owner disputes a notice of violation issued
under Section 94.03(i) or a bill issued under Section 94.03(j), such property
owner may file a written appeal with the Board of Pubic Works and Safety for
rescission or adjustment of such notice or bill within fourteen (14) days after
the date of such notice or bill.
(l)
If the property owner fails to pay a bill under Section 94.03(h) within
fifteen (15) days, the Department of Metropolitan Development shall certify to
the Wayne County Auditor the amount of the bill plus an additional
administrative cost of $50.00 (of which, $15.00 will be retained by Wayne
County Government) incurred in the certification. The Wayne County Auditor
shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property
affected, and the total amount including any accrued interest, shall be
collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
general fund of the City of Richmond as provided in Indiana Code 36-7-10.14.
(m)
Should any paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Section
be properly declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder
of said Chapter shall not be affected thereby. In the event the provisions of
this Ordinance conflict with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-10.1-1 et
seq. including any amendments, the provisions of the Indiana Code 36-710.1-1 et seq. shall be controlling. This Ordinance is not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other Ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or
other provision of the law. The requirements of this Ordinance should be
considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this
Ordinance imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other
Ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, the more restrictive
provisions or those provisions that impose higher protective standards for
human health or the environment, shall be considered to take precedence.
(Ordinance 67-1985; Ordinance 63-1991; Ordinance 23-1993; Ordinance 362011, Ordinance 13-2015)

94.04 STORAGE OF MACHINERY AND PARTS
(a)
The presence of inoperable storage of inoperable machinery, motor
vehicles, and appliances, in active construction excavation and wrecking
projects, uninhabitable mobile homes, and accumulations of junk and used
materials of whatever description on any premises within view of any public
street or way and within the corporate limits of the city is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance unless such presence is a permitted use under Chapter 154 of
this Code. junk vehicles and parts of machinery on any premises within view of
any public premises or public street or highway, and not a licensed business to
store junk vehicles, within the corporate limits of the city shall be a nuisance.
(b)
Any code enforcement officer or police officer may issue a notice of
violation upon observing a public nuisance as defined in the preceding sub
section. Such violation is subject to a fine of $20.00. The procedure for
payment or trial is set forth is Section 10.99(h). person or officer of the city
including but not limited to zoning inspectors and police officers, shall on finding
a nuisance as defined in (a) above, file a complaint of the maintaining of a
nuisance against the person on whose property the nuisance exists with the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
(c)
The Board of Public Works and Safety, upon being advised such a notice
of violation was admitted or adjudged to exist, may cause the on receiving the
complaint, shall cause the owner of the premises on which the nuisance is
maintained, to be given notice to appear before the Board and to show cause at
a hearing, why the nuisance should not be removed from the premises. The
hearing is to be held not less than 7 days nor more than 21 days after receipt of
a complaint.
(d)
If at the hearing, the owner of the premises shall not show sufficient
reason why the nuisance should not be removed or should such owner of the
premises on which the nuisance is maintained, fail to appear, at the hearing, the
Board of Public Works and Safety may order the nuisance removed.
(e)
Should the owner of the premises on which the nuisance is maintained fail
to remove the nuisance within 30 days, the Board of Public Works and Safety
may cause the nuisance to be removed and charge the expense against the
owner. The expense involved may be made a lien against the property pursuant
to Indiana Code 36-1-6-2. That cost shall constitute a lien on the real estate from
which the nuisance is removed.
(f)
A list of persons who fail to comply with the foregoing requirements
together with the description of their property on which a lien is created, and the
cost and charges shall be furnished to the City Controller. It shall be his duty to
collect the same as assessments for street and sewer improvements are
collected. (Ord. 16-1978) Penalty, see 10.99

ABANDONED VEHICLES
94.10 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW
The provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-1 and I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., including any amendments
thereto, are declared to be in full force and effect for the city and those provisions of
the law are incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 3-1982)
94.11 CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW
All provisions of 94.10 through 94.14 shall be in conformance with and not in conflict
with I.C. 9-9-1.1-1 through 9-9-1.1-15. Any provision found to be in conflict with the
statute shall be deemed amended to conform to the statute. This subchapter is passed
pursuant to I.C. 9-9-1.1-1 through 9-9-1.1-15 for the purpose of facilitating the removal,
and disposition of abandoned vehicles in the city. (Ord. 3-1982)
94.12 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES
The Richmond City Police Department in cooperation with the Purchasing Department
of the City shall be authorized to develop and implement a system for rotation calling of
wreckers to tow vehicles which are not removed by owners direction or pursuant to
other contract or agreement. The Police Department in conjunction with the Purchasing
Department shall be authorized to develop standards for the implementation of such
program and shall be authorized to establish a rate applicable to the wrecker services
listed on such rotation service and shall be authorized to establish a standard fee based
upon the complexity of the services requested and the time period of the services
requested. Such fee shall be reasonable in light of all circumstances. (Ord. 25-1986)
94.13 ADMINISTRATION
(a)
The Board of Public Works and Safety shall promulgate such rules and
regulations as it deems necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
impoundment area.
(b)
The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the public agency
responsible for the storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles and may enter
into bid contracts as necessary for the purpose of storage and disposition of
abandoned vehicles. (Ord. 3-1982; Ord. 28-1982)
94.14 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT
(a)
There is created an abandoned vehicle account to be administered by the
City Controller in conformance with Indiana Code 9-9-1.1-14.

(b)
The proceeds of the sale or disposition of any abandoned vehicle, or parts
thereof, shall be paid directly to the towing service contracted by the City of
Richmond for its unreimbursed towing, storage and disposal expenses of
abandoned vehicles or parts thereof.
94. 15 ASSESSMENT OF VEHICLES
(a)
If a tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within seventy-two (72) hours of
tagging and the Richmond Police Officer (“Officer”) suspects the market value of the
vehicle is seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or less, the Officer shall prepare a
written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition, missing parts, and other facts that might substantiate the estimated
market value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(b)
This assessment, described in subsection 94.15(a) above, shall be
performed by an Officer designated by the Richmond Chief of Police. If the
assessment confirms the market value of the vehicle is seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) or less, the Officer shall provide for the immediate disposal of the vehicle
to the contracted towing service. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. The towing service may dispose of the abandoned vehicle not less
than thirty (30) days after the date on which the towing service removed the
abandoned vehicle and after the assessment has been made by the Richmond
Police Department.
(c)
The Richmond City Police Department shall retain a copy of the assessment
and any photographs for two (2) years after the disposal of the vehicle or parts.
(d)
If the assessment indicates the market value of the vehicle is greater than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), the notification and disposal procedures in I.C.
9-22-1 et seq., shall be followed. (Ord. 51-2007)

SMOKE
94.30 DENSE SMOKE NUISANCE
The emission of dense, black or gray smoke from any smokestack or chimney used in
connection with any stationary steam boiler, locomotive, or furnace, of any description,
within the city, in any apartment house, office building, hotel, theater, place of public
amusement, school building, institution, locomotive, or any other structure in the city, or
in any building used as a factory, or for any purpose of trade, or for any other purpose
except as a private residence, is a public nuisance. (‘72 Code, 16.01) (Ord. 231-1910)
Penalty, see 10.99
94.31 INSPECTION
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have authority to inspect, supervise, and require
all steam boilers or furnaces, either stationary or locomotive, and all other furnaces
within the city, to be so constructed, or, if already constructed, to be so altered or have
attached thereto such efficient smoke preventatives as to prevent the production and
emission of dense black and gray smoke. He shall further have authority to supervise
the igniting, stoking, feeding, and attending of such steam boiler or other furnace fires.
He, or his assistant, if any, shall have authority to enter any steam boiler or engine
room, or building not occupied exclusively as a private residence. No person shall
hinder or obstruct him in the performance of his duty. (‘72 Code, 16.02) (Ord. 2311910) Penalty, see 10.99
94.32 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT FURNACE
When any person shall be desirous of constructing or altering any steam boiler,
locomotive, or furnace within the city he shall make application at the office of the Chief
of the Fire Department for a certificate for that purpose, and shall furnish a written
statement giving the style and dimensions of the boiler and furnace, together with the
height and size of stack or chimney, and the method or device to be adopted for
preventing the emission of dense black or gray smoke. If, in the opinion of the Chief of
the Fire Department, it shall appear necessary, drawings of the apparatus may be
required. (‘72 Code, 16.03) (Ord. 231-1910) Penalty, see 10.99
94.33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS
(a)
The owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of any building or structure of any
description, and the general manager or superintendent having charge of any
boiler or locomotive within the city, from the smokestack or chimney of which
there shall issue dense black or gray smoke, shall be deemed guilty of creating
a public nuisance and of violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(b)
The general manager, superintendent, or other officer of any railroad or
other company, having charge or control of the operation of any locomotive or

engine within the city, who shall cause, permit, or allow dense black or gray
smoke to be emitted from the engine, shall be deemed guilty of creating a public
nuisance and of violating the provisions of this subchapter. (‘72 Code, 16.04)
(Ord. 231-1910) Penalty, see 10.99
94.34 SOFT COAL FURNACES
Every boiler or other furnace, except in a private residence, used within the city and in
which bituminous coal is burned as fuel, shall be constructed or altered or have
attached thereto efficient preventatives which shall prevent the production and emission
of dense black or gray smoke. No owner, lessee, or person having control of a steam
boiler or other furnace shall use or allow the use of the steam boiler or other furnace if
not constructed accordingly or not having the efficient smoke preventatives in good and
efficient order and operation. (‘72 Code, 16.05) (Ord. 231-1910) Penalty, see 10.99
94.35 STOKING FURNACE
Every person having charge of the igniting, feeding, stoking, or attending to any steam
boiler or other furnace, or any smoke preventive attached thereto, shall ignite, stoke,
feed, or attend the furnace fire and keep the furnace and smoke preventatives
attached thereto in good and efficient order so that dense black and gray smoke shall
not be produced or emitted therefrom. (‘72 Code, 16.06) (Ord. 231-1910) Penalty, see
10.99
94.36 REPORTS: ORDERS TO REMEDY DEFECTS
It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to personally inspect all
chimneys, steam generating plants, and apparatus in use, make written reports to the
Board of Public Works and Safety, and keep a permanent record of all essential facts.
If, in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department, smoke emitted is a nuisance, he
shall make complaint to the persons maintaining the nuisance defining its cause. If the
cause is unskillful hand stoking, he shall make immediate complaint against all persons
violating this subchapter. If the nuisance is caused by the construction of the furnace,
size or height of stack, connections or engineering details relating to boiler or furnace
construction or connection, he shall make a statement of the cause of the nuisance and
report to the owners or operators as to necessary changes, alterations, or additions and
fix a limit of time for the changes, alterations, or additions to be made. The time shall
not exceed three months. In the event, however, that it is necessary to install stokers,
the time shall not exceed six months. If it is apparent from the inspection of the Chief of
the Fire Department that no change, appliances, or alteration of the furnace, boilers,
connections, stack, or appurtenances thereto would eradicate the smoke nuisance, and
that the nuisance is caused by the steam generating plant being worked in excess of its
normal capacity or, for other organic reasons, cannot be converted to eliminate the
nuisance, then he shall report to the owners or operators the conditions of the plant and
the required changes or additions necessary so that it will not operate as a nuisance.
Notices shall be in writing, and at the expiration of the time allowance the Chief of the

Fire Department shall report as to the conditions of the plant. In the event it is
maintained as a nuisance, he shall make complaint against all persons violating this
subchapter. (‘72 Code, 16.07) (Ord. 231-1910)
94.40

REAL ESTATE USED FOR ILLEGAL SALE OF DRUGS

a. For purposes of Section 94.40 of Richmond Code, the use of non-owner
occupied real property to commit an act constituting an offense under I.C. 35-48-4 shall be
deemed a civil nuisance.
b. The provisions of Indiana Code 34-19-3, as amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated by reference and shall be utilized by the City in the abatement of a
drug-related civil nuisance.
c. The procedures hereinafter set forth shall be followed prior to the City initiating
an action pursuant to I.C. 34-19-3.
d. No owner of real estate located in the City shall knowingly allow that real estate
to be used in such a manner so as to constitute a civil nuisance as defined herein. An
owner of such real estate is deemed to have knowledge of such activity upon receipt of
notice as provided in subsection (f) herein. For purposes of this section, an owner of real
estate is defined as any person or entity that, alone or with others, has legal or equitable
title to any real property. When any real property is owned by more than one person or
entity, or when legal and equitable title is held by different persons or entities, all such
persons or entities shall be jointly and severally liable for any violations of this section.
e. Upon receipt of any report or complaint of suspected activity constituting a civil
nuisance as defined herein, the Richmond Police Department shall conduct such
investigation as it deems necessary. At any time prior to or during said investigation, the
Department shall, when deemed appropriate under the circumstances, send an initial
warning letter to the owner and/or occupant of the property that it suspects such activity
may be occurring and that an investigation is about to commence or is ongoing. The initial
warning letter shall inform the recipient that:
1. if it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it is a
violation of both state and local law;
2. if it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, it may result
in fines being assessed pursuant to Richmond Code;
3. if it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the owner
must abate the suspected nuisance to avoid any fines being assessed under
this section by evicting those responsible;

4. if it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the
Richmond Police Department will, at the owner’s request, deliver an eviction
notice to the responsible tenant;
5. if its investigation reveals that a civil nuisance is in fact taking
place, the City and the Police Department intend to take further legal action; and
6. if it is determined that a civil nuisance is occurring, the property
owner will be notified and given the opportunity to abate the nuisance before
any fines are assessed.
f. Whenever the Richmond Police Department determines that a civil nuisance as
defined in subsection (a) herein exists, which determination must be made by the Chief of
Police or a designated officer and approved by the City Law Department, the Police shall,
when deemed appropriate under the circumstances, cause written notice to be served on
the owner and occupant that a present occupant or tenant of that property has been using
the property so as to constitute a civil nuisance as defined herein or has been allowing the
property to be so used. Said notice shall contain a copy of this section of Richmond Code
and shall inform the recipient of the following:
1. that a civil nuisance exists on the property;
2. the date and time the civil nuisance was first discovered;
3. the location on the property where the civil nuisance is allegedly
occurring;
4. that such activity is a violation of both state and local law;
5. that such activity may result in fines being assessed pursuant to
Richmond Code;
6. that the owner must abate the civil nuisance by evicting those
responsible to avoid any fines being assessed under this
section;
7. that, if the owner chooses to abate the civil nuisance by evicting
those responsible, he or she must so inform the Police
Department in writing and commence said eviction within thirty
(30) days of receipt of this notice;
8. that the Richmond Police Department will, at the owner’s
request, deliver an eviction notice to the property; and

9. that if the owner fails to abate the civil nuisance, the City and the
Police Department may take further legal action, including but
not limited to, filing suit pursuant to IC 34-19-3.
g. After receiving an initial warning letter or second notification under this section, if
a property owner so requests, an eviction notice signed by the property owner shall be
delivered to the responsible tenant by the Richmond Police Department. (The Police
Department shall inform the property owner that, if the tenant or occupant refuses to leave,
it will be necessary to file an eviction proceeding through the proper court.)
h.

1. The notice required pursuant to subsection (f) shall be given by:
a. sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail
to the residence or place of business or employment of the
person to be notified, with return receipt requested;
b. delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
c. leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified.
2. If, after a reasonable effort, service is not obtained by a means
described in subsection (h)(1), service may be made by publishing the
notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
3. Notice is deemed given to the owner, upon receipt of notice as
indicated above, by the owner of record pursuant to the records and files
of the Wayne County Assessor’s Office.

i. Within thirty days of receipt of notice in accordance with subsection (f), the owner
must initiate such legal action as is necessary to evict all persons responsible for or
permitting the civil nuisance (which shall include, at a minimum, a notice of eviction
delivered by the Richmond Police Department or the property owner by serving notice
pursuant to I.C. 34-19-3-5), and must diligently prosecute such legal action to a conclusion.
j. In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person necessary to name in an
eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying the actual unit involved with the
nuisance as defined herein.
k. Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this section shall be adjunct
to, and not a substitution for, any criminal charges filed against occupants or tenants of that
owner’s real estate for any illegal activity.

l. The Chief of Police shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate, and assist
owners of real estate in evicting, and avoiding the placement of, tenants or occupants in
their real estate who are known violators of illegal activities under IC 35-48-4.
m. Any owner of real estate violating this section, which violation causes the City to
begin its own eviction process pursuant to I.C 34-19-3, shall be fined fifty dollars ($50) to
assist with costs associated in utilizing state law. No fines shall be assessed until at least
thirty (30) days after receipt of notice required by subsection (f). Each day such violation
continues shall be deemed a separate violation, beginning with the 31 st day following
receipt of notice as required by subsection (f).
n. Nothing in this section shall be construed to encourage or authorize the
discrimination by lessors against any persons based upon race, creed, religion, sex, age or
national origin. Rather, it is the intent of this section to hold persons accountable for
acquiescing in or participating in the continued use of his/her property as the location of
illegal drug activity.

