Marion County Community Corrections
Advisory Board Meeting
March 20, 2014
Board Members Present: Colonel Louis Dezelan, Robert Hill, Dr. Miltina Gavia, Mark Sattler, Carlette Duffy, Linda Crockeron, Judge Jason Reyome, Andrew Fogle, Sandra Bryan, Timothy Bolton, Dr. Willie Jenkins, Joe Shikany
With a quorum present, Andy Fogle called the meeting to order at 12:02pm
Approval of Board Minutes: 
Andy Fogle asked for a motion to approve the Board minutes from February 20, 2014. The motion was made and seconded; Marion County Community Corrections Advisory Board meeting minutes were approved for February 20, 2014. 
Current Jail Numbers: Colonel Dezelan: Colonel Dezelan reported the current Marion County Jail numbers to the board. Colonel Dezelan spoke briefly regarding the impact that Community Corrections has made reducing Marion County Jail population. John Deiter presented current numbers for MCCC on how Community Corrections is pleased to work with Marion County Jail on continuing to help reduce the jail population. 
Discussion on Community Corrections/Probation Joint Projects:  Chairman Andy Fogle expressed to the board MCCC dedication to working with Marion County Probation in combining resource contacts as to better serve the current and future client base. 
DOC Site Visit Results: Director of Programs, Jennifer Deiter spoke briefly regarding the most recent site visit from DOC. Jennifer expressed to the board how pleased she and Community Corrections is with the score of 85 received, which is an increase of 5 points over last year’s score. MCCC Director John Deiter explained to the board the increase in score was due to the continued support from board members, as well as the hard work and dedication of MCCC management and staff.  
Update Security at Duvall Residential Center:  Director of Duval residential center, Chris Morrison spoke briefly regarding the progress being made in the hiring of over 30 security officers. Security was covered with a contract between Securatex and Community Corrections. This contract is set to expire on April 23, 2014 in preparation of the contract ending MCCC has worked tirelessly to hire in house security officers that will be County employees. This transition will start on April 7, 2014 with training that includes training by Department of Correction staff. 
Stalnaker Security: CFO Steve Dyson spoke briefly regarding a contract between Stalnaker Security and MCCC replacing security at 140 East Washington Street due to the ending of Securatex security on April 23, 2014. There will be an armed officer working Monday thru Friday working the hours MCCC is open, there will be 2 unarmed officers that will be working nights and weekends. There was discussion before the board, the board voted unanimously to approve the contract to provide security services to 140 East Washington Street beginning April 23, 2014. 
Fiscal Ordinances Approved/Additional allocations from DOC: CFO Steve Dyson spoke briefly regarding three separate approval of ordinances/additional allocations of funding. First being the approval of Ordinances from the City County Council, second approval to increase user fee funds, and third being the addition of funds from DOC to cover the cost of additional work release beds. 
With no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 1:03pm. 
**The next MCCC advisory board meeting will be on April 17, 2014 in room 260 (CCB) starting at 12:00pm
