BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
March 20, 2014
The meeting of the Board of Parks and Recreation was called to order by Chairman
Williams, Thursday, March 20, 2014, at 3:45 p.m. Room 260, City-County Building, 200 East
Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.
Board Members Present:

Chairman, John Williams, Mr. Joe Wynns,
Josh Bowling and Anne Valentine

Staff Present:

Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary
Suzanne Martin, Assistant Board Secretary
Doug Kowalski, Deputy Corporation Counsel

Staff Absent:

Dr. Jackie Greenwood

Approval of Minutes: None
Directors Announcements:
Chairman Williams greeted the Board and the audiance and he thanked everyone for being
there. Chairman Williams greeted the Board members and guests. Chairman Williams
stated that he has a couple of announcements. First and foremost, it is that time of the year
again where we at Indy Parks are looking for lifeguards for our pool season. Those of you
who are watching on television if you know someone who may be interested in becoming a
lifeguard this summer please contact the Indy Parks Department and we would be more than
happy to put you on staff. You have to know how to swim obviously, and be able to pass our
tests of rigourous training to become certified and we are looking forward to having a full
confident summer staff to help us open up our pools for a safe summer season.
Secondly we have been working on different kinds of promotions and there is a new one that
he believes is a good idea that if you want to support Indy Parks the Macy’s Department
store and the National Parks and Recreation Association have chosenBroad Ripple Park as
a location for what they call a new your park initiative through Macy’s. What this means is
you can go to the Glendale Macy’s location only and when you purchase items and
acknowledge that you would like part of the proceeds to go towards the project at Broad
Ripple Park. If you happen to find your way to Macy’s at Glenday Mall, please remember to
support Indy Parks. Thank you.
This is all Chairman Williams has as announcements and we do not have any minutes to
approve at this time and we will be approving last month’s minutes in April.

Agenda Item #4, 2014 – The Resource Development Division is recommending that the
Board of Parks and Recreation support the Sons of Confederate Veterans in their efforts to
raise all funds necessary to restore the Garfield Park Confederate Prisoner of War
Monument.
Don Colvin greeted the Board and introduced Bryan Blevens and he has been able to have
the benefit to work with Brian on this project for quite a while now to work with his ideas and
what he is trying to accomplish and as we all know the Sons of Confederate Veterans
memorial down at Garfield Park has been there for a number of years and has fallen into
disrepair. The caulking joints are deteriating and in particularly the brass plaques are
needing aid and typically this is not something that the park agency have the resources to
make those repairs and particularly when we have leaky roofs, HVAC systems expenditures.
Brian came to him with an idea he would like to take on an opportunity to take on to fund
raise this and what we have here before you today seeking out the Board support to start
this initiative. They are not asking for any of the City’s dollars to be involved in this and he
will let Brian really speak to you of all the details. They have met with the Indianapolis Parks
Foundation president, Lori Hazlett and the foundation is more than happy to receive the
funds. They are not going to raise any additional funds for this project but they are very
much in support of receiving the funds and holding those funds until the time of the
expenditures and if there are any additional dollars left over from the fund raising process
those dollars will remain with the foundation for any future maintenance activities. If the
Board would so allow him he would like to turn the floor over to Brian to go over his
presentation to talk about what he is hoping to do for this war monument. Mr. Blevins
thanked Don and the Board for his opportunity to present his proposal to the Board. Brian
pointed to the first slide on the overhead screen noting that the monument is about 35 to 40
feet tall and about 20 foot wide. The monument has six bronze plates on its sides 3 on each
side. This monument, and of course that is him standing in front of it on the slide which
gives you a proportion of how big this monument is. The monument was errected in 1912 by
the United States Federal Government to honor the 1616 confederate POWs that died here
at Camp Morton here in Indianapolis during the Civil War. In the early 1920’s as the city
began to grow the Green Lawn Cemetary, presently the Diamond Chain Company became
in disrepaired so they disinteared every body located in the cemetary which included the
1616 confederate soldiers which took them about 3 years to finish the project and they
moved them out to Crown Hill Cemetary where they rest at this time.
In 1928 the Southern Club of Indianapolis asked the Parks Board to move the monument
while they were doing this disintearment of these veterans to Garfield Park as Garfield being
the only city park in Indianapolis at that time. Of course the Board approved the monument
to moved to Garfield Park. During the reintearment due to cost overuns and the great
depression that struck the United States, this monument was not moved due to the financial
costs that they could not afford, so it has been sitting in the park since 1928.
The condition of the monument is not bad for 102 year old monument. The stones are in
great condition. A lot of the caulking is missing and of course the brass plates are severely
weather worn with mold and in a bad state of affairs. The next picture on the overhead
screen shows the monument on the shady side and you can see all the black mold. The
picture on the right is a close-up of what the brass plaque will look like when restored.
2

With Mr. Blevins is Mr. Greg Hurrly, president of Hurrly Monument Company who has been
in business since 1999 and he has been asked to help them restore this monument. His
goal and request is to restore the monument for the City of Indianapolis public for the next
100 years. He is a member of the Sons of Confederate Veterans which is southern historical
society geared towards the preservation of the history and the heritage of their confederate
ancestors. Brian has received approval from the SCV to raise these funds for this projecrt.
He has obtained a quote from Mr. Hurrly to complete the project and he has been in contact
like Mr. Colvin stated with the Indianapolis Parks Foundation and they have stepped up and
agreed to hold the funds and distribute the funds for the expenditures of the repair and that
with any funds left over they will hold as future funds into an escrow account for future
maintenance expenses and there will be no burden on the City of Indianapolis or the tax
payers of Indianapolis for maintenance of this monument and they hope it last for a very long
time since the monument is in extremely good shape for a 102 year old monument.
Brian went on to tell the Board of his personal story. He stated that he is extremely excited
for the Board to give him the opportunity to make this restoration and thanked the Board for
allowing him to present to them his proposal. He is hoping that he will received the Board’s
approval for him to proceed with this restoration. It is a win win for Garfield Park and for the
City of Indianapolis.
Lastly, being a member of the Sons of the Confederate Veterans, people look at you in a
strange way and he understands the sensitivity behind this but his organization is in now way
here to make a political statement in any way or stir up any old wounds. They are here
strictly for a restoration project of a beautiful monument which sits in the city park at Garfield
Park. One last thing, there are some people he would like to thank and they are of course
the Indianapolis Parks Foundation, The Friends of Garfield Park, City County Councillor Jeff
Miller of District 19 which encompasses Garfield Park who is on board as well as Carlos
May, City Advisor to the Mayor who is also on board, Kip Morgan who is a legislator of
Indiana for the Disabled American Veterans and Michael Ham with the Indiana Department
of Veterans Affairs and Don Colvin who has helped him over the last year and a half reach
this point for the approval of the restoration and he thanked the Board for their time and
hopes that they approve his request.
Chairman Williams thanked Mr. Blevins for his presentation. Chairman Williams asked if the
Board had any comments or questions. Mr. Wynns stated that this is a very sensitive issue
obviously. Mr. Blevins also stated that it is. Mr. Wynns stated that they have also had
issues with putting statues on the Cultural Trail and it got all blown out of proportion and he
doesn’t know how he will move with this because there will be some sensitivity from the
public and he didn’t think that there would be such an isse with the statue on the Cultural
Trail either about slavery and the slave monuments and with the confederacy you have to be
very sensitive when you bring something like this forward in the public eye. The statue on
the Cultural Trail became a big issue with neighborhood meetings and they said they were
not going to do it. When you talk about confederacy and things like this you will be opening
old wounds. He grew up in South Carolina and this is a very sensitive issue and he only
says that to let everyone know that it could be opening up something that needs to be very,
very careful in dealing with it. He does support the restoration but he wants everyone to
know what this could involve into a big issue and the people who were involved with putting
the statue on the Cultural Trail the Community Foundation didn’t think that there would be an
3

issue with that and it went crazy with issues. When the push back comes you need to figure
out how you are going to deal with it. They didn’t deal with it very good with the Cultural Trail
statue issue. They spent a lot of money developing it. Mr. Blevins stated that he and Don
Colvin have had this discussion several times and in his first meeting with Don about a year
ago this was one of the first things that he discussed with him. Mr. Blevins stated that it is a
little different because they are not putting up a new monument they are just restoring the
one that is and has always been there for 102 years with private funds. He does undertand
the sensitivity for sure and would like to do this low key as possible. They don’t need
newspaper articles, cameras or stuff like that. This is not there goal. Their goal is simply to
take care of the restoration.
Mr. Wynns wants them to be prepared if there is any push back and to not be totally caught
off guard if there is. Chairman Williams stated that first of all there is a very good distinction
between putting up a new statue verses restoring an historic monument. There is always
going to be that sensitivity. Chairman Williams stated that he would advise Mr. Blevins to do
a little bit of research and maybe you will have answers to any questions that arrise and be
prepared to answer if they come about. With regard to African Americans Sons of
Confederate Soldiers, because those organizations do exist as well. Mr. Blevins stated that
there are 26 African American veterans that are buried at Crown Hill Cemetary along with 2
Hispanics and a truck load of people from South America and he is not sure what countries.
And for historical purposes people are in the war not necessarily because they wanted to be.
And as a veteran, he knows that for himself and he wasn’t unfortunate to go to battle but he
was in the military at a time when the country was at war during the firsrt Desert Storm and
he was very close to deployment and he knows there are a lot of people on both sides as to
whether or not we should have been there. He would hope that because of the service that
he provided for our country he will be honored for his service regardless of wether or not they
agree with why he was there. In this respect he believes it is similar in nature, people lost
their lives on both sides of the battlefield. Mr. Blevins stated that he prays that there will not
be any repercussions from the public of this restoration process. It is a historical monument
and he hopes that it can be restored without any repercussions.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions or comments from the Board
members. Ms. Valentine stated that she has just a question on the restoration piece of it. Is
this put it back together for another 100 years? Is it a 50 year; is there a way to guage this
process? Mr. Curry stated that the monument is 100 years old now and it just depends and
it should look fine for the rest of our lives. It will be completed in several steps. Step 1 is to
take the bronze plaques and send those to Muncie Indiana factory for sanding with crushed
walnut shells to keep the bronze from abrassive restoration. Crushed walnut shells are less
abrasive and then paint them and then belt them with a very large sander to go over the
letters and the seal it. It should last a very long time since it is is hanging on the wall.
There may be general upkeep as general cleaning. No maintenance on a regular basis.
The process will clean all the details out of the green and grey clay out.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other comments or questions from the Board.
There were none.
4

A motion was duly made by Ms. Valentine, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #4, 2014.
Chairman Williams stated that we have a presentation and while they get set up for the
Greenways Master Plan which will give the Board members an opportunity to hear the
exciting things that have been going on this year with our Greenways Master Plan
development. Taylor Seifert and Williams has been doing this and in the process of obtaining
public comments and things of that nature so without further a do, Ron are y our ready?
Ron replied yes.
Presentation – Indy Greenways 2014 – 2024 Master Plan – Andre Denman, Principal Park
and Greenways Planner
Andre Denman stated that before you hear from Ron he wants to thank the Board for letting
them present and next month they will have the resolution before you for approval and
hopefully if you have had a chance to read this massive document, he knows it has been
thrilling reading but he wants to thank a few key staff, first the Board for allowing them to be
here today, his boss, Don Colvin for pushing them to do the plan as well as they have, Julee
Jacob, for her assistance at several meetings and putting up with his bad jokes. He would
also like to thank DPW staff and the PIOs from both DPW and Indy Parks. He believes that
they have gone through every PIO with this plan and last but not least he would definitely like
to thank his right hand man, Ben Jackson who doesn’t get as many kudos as he should as
the man behind the curtain doing lots of work so he definitely wants to thank him for all his
hard work and heavy lifting as other things are getting accomplished. With that said, he has
challenged Ron because they presented this plan yesterday before the Greenways
Development Committee to finish the presentation to have us out of the meeting in time to
watch Scandle later on today so, he is going to turn it over to Ron and Andre would like to
thank him and a couple of his staff, Scott Seifert, Amy Williams and Dave Foster who does a
lot of their heavy liftin gin their office with putting together a lot of the graphics. He is turning
it over to Ron but he will be around to tell any jokes or answer any questions you might have.
Ron thanked Andre and said he noticed that Andre is running for cover. Ron thanked
Director Williams, Deputy Director, Colvin and members of the Parks Board he appreciates
the opportunity to talk to you today. You received a hard copy of the Greenways Master
Plan document and hopefully you have had a chance to thumb through it. They are actually
really excited about this project and what he wants to do is take a few minutes to give you an
overview of what you are going to see in this Master Plan and give you a little bit of direction
because he knows that the amount of information in here can be a little bit intimidating so we
are going to step back a little and tell you a little about the process and how the
recommendations from this document came to be and then we are going to show you what
the Master Plan includes. He believes you will see why they are real excited about this.
When we think about the Greenways a lot of times we go back to the George Kessler Plan
which really was the first plan that really started to look at how we use some of our
recreational open spaces. If you look around the city today you can find pieces of that plan
still in place. There was a legacy that was left in the city by Kessler’s work but it is by no
means complete. This is still a vision that they are implementing today. On the overhead
screen is a photo of right before the winter began of the new construction happening on the
Fall Creek Greenway just to the west of the Monon Trail.
5

There has also been some contemporary planning done. The First Greenways Plan that
established the plan that is in place today was done in 1994, updated again in 2002, and it
too left a legacy, if you will, on the city. When we go out on a Saturday and we look at the
people that are walking along the Monon cooridor in Broad Ripple, this really is the legacy
that that plan has left. This vision as well has not been fully implemented and today we are
still implementing part of that system. This is an image on the overhead screen from the
South White River Greenway that’s construction is just currently rapping up on that. So he
thinks it is important to understand when we start this that what they are doing is establishing
the next vision, if you will, for where greenways need to go in the city, in the next 5 years, the
next 10 years, and the next 20 years and beyond.
Just to give you a little bit of background, our current system of trails and greenways, we
have just under 60 miles of greenway trails in the city. In the original or the plan from 2002
we still have about 44 miles that have not been constructed. Another key number that we
like to remind people of is the fact that we take user counts on all of our greenway trails.
Last year, or in 2012 we had over 3 million people use Indy greenways. These are some
significant recreational spaces. Their current system is broken into 10 separate greenways
cooridors and some are rail cooridors. Some are long waterways but we currently have 10 of
those different systems in place and this is what the current plan system looks like on the
overhead screen. They have bolded the redlines to show you what is currently in there from
the 2002 master plan. Now he is backing off a little bit and stated that the picture on the
overhead screen now is actually the graphic that shows just what has been built from that
plan. You are starting to see some things emerge when you look at this map. He is going to
add this yellow line in here and what this is is what they term as the service area of that
greenway and it basically is a half mile fringe on each direction from a built greenway and
that is roughly a 10 minute walk from a greenway. This starts to show us how many people
and how many geographic area within Marion County is within a 10 minute walk of our
greenways. Again, he thinks you can see that there is a pattern emerging and if you can’t
see it well lets change the graphic a little bit and take a look at the additional graph on the
overhead screen which depicts the map of Marion County and their townships and you can
see perdominately our greenways are developed in washington and center townships.
There are reasons for that with some of the early planning that went on, but we do have a
system today that is perdominately in those 2 townships. We also are living in a time in the
city that is much different than when the 2002 or the 1994 plans were done. What they are
seeing around the city now is we have an exploading bicycle culture. We are seeing many,
many miles of new on-street bike facilities such as the bike lanes and the emphasis on using
your bicycle to get around. There is an evolving health and fitness awareness as well as the
new transit initiatives that are happening across the city. There are initiatives out there to
reconnect to our waterways and there really is a growing resurgence in neighborhood
planning and development trying to figure out at the neighborhood scale we are starting to
plug into the city both the uniqueness of getting people to those neighborhoods as well as
how those neighborhoods can plug into the greenways system to be connected to other
things.
What they are doing with the full circle plan obviously trying to look at obviously some of the
improvements that are needed to that existing system but they are really establishing the
new vision for Indy Greenways and this is an important thing that we have to do because
6

completing this plan helps to ensure that the greenways are not only plugged into these
other initiatives and the regional transportation plan but also make sure that the greenways
are elegible for the different types of federal funding we seek to try to construct different
portions. We have been going through our planning process for a little bit over a year now
and he thinks this is probably something that is important for the Parks Board to understand,
and this is that this plan really has been driven by public engagement. It has been driven by
a level of public engagement that you don’t often see in plans like this. He wants to show
the Board some of those tools that they have used throught the past year and a half.
From the very beginning of the project they wanted to make sure that people were aware of
what was going on, what was happening with the plan, why they were doing it, what it was all
about so they began the process by having a series of promotional brochures printed and
distributed to libraries, community centers, schools, any place that would take a stack they
pretty much delivered those. There was also a project website established and this website
really is the portal, if you will, to this greenways plan. They have been able to put materials
on this website for the public meetings so that if people were not able to attend the public
meeting they have been able to direct them to the site and they are able to obtain the
information and know what has been going on. They have had a very active social media
platform. One of their tools that they have used the most has been their Facebook page that
is specific to the project and what this has really done has allowed them to connect with
several different people on a more intimate basis. Much more informal basis so that they are
able to strike up conversation about anything that might come up in the planning process.
Another unique thing that was done for this is that they opened a project office in Boulevard
Station, the historic rail depot is right where the monon meets 38 th Street and one day a
week the project development team and folks from his office would be staffed there where
people could schedule meetings and come in and talk to them, the neighborhood groups
could come in and talk to them, or if they just wanted to stop by and see what they were
working on they could sit down at the table and pull out some sketch paper and work with
them. They were pretty successful there in broadening the type of input we were able to get.
Incredibly they expected to get folks to come in with scribbled notes on notebook paper and
they got some of that but they also got some of this. People were coming in with their
neighborhood plans with ideas for what the trails could be, of how trails could connect and
where things could go and they think that this was really successful and they think that they
are starting to see that same model being replicated in some other processess going on in
the city. There also was an online survey conducted with residents and this was just a
facinating experience because what you are going to see in some of the recommendations is
driven by some of the things we received as part of this. He has blown this part up and he
thinks that one of the startling facts to them was that of the people who took the survey, 60%
of those people have to drive to get to a greenway. And if this isn’t startling enough, 49% of
the people who had to drive to a greenway had to drive more than 5 miles. So another way
that the same question was asked as seen on the bar graph on the right side of the
overhead slide asked the question of if you don’t use the greenways, why is that? 78% of
the people said because there is no greenway near their home or neighborhood. The data
that they received from this survey was pretty beneficial because it allowed them to start
bringing those types of things into their recommendations.

7

They have also been pretty active, as you may have noticed, rather it be the Greenway
Development Committee meetings or public meetings on Channel 16 and they have had a
real extensive series of different public events and meetings. They have held 14 official
public meetings, including one in each township and by his count tonight it is the 30th public
presentation that they have given on this plan and they have been very visible and very
active and they have been trying to make sure that if you have something to say about the
greenways and they haven’t heard it by now, he is not sure if it is shame on us or shame on
you, but they have made a great effort to make sure that the folks have had an opportunity to
talk to us. We have shown up everywhere. If you went to the Mayor’s Polo Pedal, you
probably saw a bunch of them walking around with the “Ask Me” stickers on their shirts
wanting to talk about the greenways. They held a Greenways Day at the City Market during
the lunch hour and they set up every exhibit that has been done and talked to folks as they
walked through. Even on National Bike to Work Day at Boulevard Station they sponsored a
rest stop where they invited people to stop on their commute home and come in and get
some refreshments and talk about the plan so they have had a significant amount of public
engagement and when you look at your Master Plan packet there is a DVD that is in the
back cover that contains all the notes from the different meetings and all the public meeting
comments so you have some access if you want to see the types of things that they have
heard, and people responded pretty positively to them.
Now, he has shown you all these different things that they have done in terms of public
engagement and if you were to ask him “What are the four biggest things you heard throught
the and we had to narrow that down to 4, these are the four things that they heard.





Connectivity
Multi-Modal Options
Interface with Neighborhoods
Lack of Greenway Options in the Southern Townships

He also thinks it is pretty interesting to hear some of the other things that were discussed
during the life of this design process. A couple of these things are pretty recent and he
thinks these are exciting because these are things that the greenways start to plug into and
the types of things that the greenways can help elevate within the City of Indianapolis. We
know that Livability Magazine just ranked Indianapolis as one of the 10 best downtowns in
terms of connectivity. The readers of USA Today has ranked Indianapolis as the top
convention center city largely due to the connectivity of its downtown and walkability and the
Cultural Trail is often mentioned. The New York Times has done a feature travel article
telling people that you need to come to Indianapolis, that’s where big things are happening.
Another big thing that has just happened, the People For Bikes has just selected
Indianapolis as one of the 6 cities for their new GreenLane project which is a really big deal
and this one just blows his mind. He is going back to the New York Times …In 2014
Indianapolis was listed as one of the 52 places that they feel you have to see. He doesn’t
know if you have looked into this or if you have read this article, but when you go to this list,
Indianapolis is not what you would typically think one of those cities would be and it is a great
recognition of some of the things that are going on. So this brings us back to the
Indianapolis Star. This is the editorial from May 12, 2013 and this was the Sunday morning
of the grand opening of the Cultural Trail, so that weekend we had downtown flooded with
people. There were events all along this trail. Marching bands going up and down the trails
8

and the Indianapolis Star posed the questions “What is the next big thing that the City of
Indianapolis will undertake? We think this is the Indy Greenways Full Circle Master Plan.
He went on to show a little of the document itself which was passed out the the Board
members for their reading pleasure and he went through the 8 goals and he didn’t go
through all of them but showed them on the overhead screen.
A copy of this Indy Greenways Full Circle Master Plan is attached to these minutes as well.
He would be happy to address any questions the Board may have and he appreciates the
time that they have given him to give them this update.
Chairman Williams thanked Ron for the presentation and all his hard work that he has put
into this process.
Mr. Wynns stated that he didn’t hear anything in the plan about security. He would hope
that this plan is shared with someone in Public Safety because when you open up a system
this wide you you are definitely going to have security concerns and he didn’t hear him touch
on this.
Ron replied that they started to address this heavily and they had some meetings with some
different Park Rangers out at the project office as well as with IMPD 96 people on their
survey said they feel safe on Indy Greenways. That was another number that was startling
to them. We expected to hear a lot about the public security and safety and people feel
relatively safe so what they have done is that they have met with them and they have talked
about what some of their needs are in order to be able to patrol this and he thinks it is part of
an ongoing discussion that needs to happen just like everything else because rather it be the
maintenance or security a lot of people will look at the system and wonder how do we
expand to take care of all these new miles? He thinks that every body is still trying to deal
with some of these issues. Mr. Wynns stated that this is what he saying and you are talking
about opening up a county-wide system, from his standpoint, somebody from Public Safety
needs to look at the plan and the cost of providing security throughout this system. Another
thing that came about during the recent new signage package was developing a new
emergency response symbology. They currently have mile markers and somebody can call
in and say they have a problem at mile #.... of this trail and there is always a little bit of
ambeguity of where exactly is that or how do I get to that point and part of the design
standards include a new system that was developed that provides specific coordinance at
different places along the trail. Mr. Wynns stated that this is the kind of discussion that
needs to be discussed for monitoring from Public Safety to start thinking about how to
monitor the emergency calls.
Andre stated that as part of the whole public meeting process Public Safety. These
discussions will still be taking place and when they get the construction documents Publioc
Safety is difinitely be people at the table seeing what these issues are.
Ms. Valentine asked when was this started as a process? Has it been a year, 2 years?
Andre replied that it was January of last year. Andre stated that it was actually a little be fore
then but their contract started in January of 2013. Ms. Valentine stated that is is very
9

impressive and she is a huge fan of the Greenways Trails and she trained for the Chicago
Marathon on the White River Parkway and would run over the the Canal Towpath and she
feels she might have ran on all 4 of them. You mentioned somewhere and then she didn’t
see it as a priority and she is assuming this didn’t come out from the public input part of it,
and it is a totally selfish question. Restrooms… Is that something that emerged or just
something that is just so costly when you look at the entire 40 existing miles. She also has 2
small children and it is also important for families. Restrooms came up during the public
process. They have taken a look at the public restrooms and they have taken a look at
some of the standards that kind of meet the requirements. Careful thought has to be taken
about the design, hours of operation, safety and trying to strike the balance of having those
types of facilities and it really is a tough question. The City is trying to position those type of
facilities in their local parks that are near the greenways so that there will be more activity
and more security. One of the things the plan does deal with and they are still working
through what we want the comfort stations standards to be but that is included in there.
Ms. Valentine also stated that at some point you have to think about cost of implementing
and she turned to the back page and it didn’t have a giant number so she is assuming that in
process you would adopt a master plan and then you look at the priorities and then you
begin to piece out the cost for that? Is this how this works? Chairman Williams stated that
he believes Ron touched on this and the different things that are associated with each trail is
that correct? Chairman Williams stated that you may have to look at the individual trail. Ron
stated that they have a planning level cost. It is difficult because especially with some of the
new routes with this master plan level it won’t get you into the number of properties that you
have to buy, and there is always unknowns but they sort of have a rule of thumb cost that
they can tell you what they think the costs would be in the range of but one of the things that
he thinks they have been careful with thoughout the planning process, rather they are
meeting with maintenance or the public security people, it is the same thing with the costs
and this is really the long term vision and we don’t necessarily build and operate trail
systems the same way today that we did even 5 or 10 years ago and he thinks part of the
challenge the City has, even when you look at the trails that are being implemented now,
they are being paid for a little bit differently and implemented a little bit differently than what
they may have been just a few years ago, so part of that cost, you know, there may be some
areas in there of undeveloped parts of Marion County where there may be some private
investments, or a developer may be abele to help build segments. There may be creative
ways to get other types of construction done to bring the costs to the City down. Ms.
Valentine stated that it is a beautiful design.
Adjournment
A motion was duly made by Mr. Bowling for adjournment, seconded by by Mr.
Wynns and unanimously passed to adjourn.

10

The next Board of Parks and Recreation meeting is scheduled for April 17, 2014 at 3:45
p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at Thatcher Park located at 4649 W. Vermont Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46222.
SUBMITTED:

______
Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary

APPROVED:

John W. Williams, Chairman
Board of Parks and Recreation

Date

11

