BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
MINUTES OF May 23, 2013

The meeting of the Board of Parks and Recreation was called to order by Chairman Williams,
Thursday, May 23, 2013, at 3:45 p.m. Room 260, City-County Building, 200 East Washington Street,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.

Board Members Present:

Chairman, John Williams, Dr. Jacqueline Greenwood, Mr. Joe
Wynns, Mr. Josh Bowling and Dr. Michael Twyman

Staff Present:

Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary
Suzanne Martin, Assistant Board Secretary
Don Colvin, Deputy Director
LeAnnette Pierce, Assistant Corporation Counsel

Special Presentation: Recognition of Linda Koontz
(43 Years of Service to Indy Parks and Recreation)
Chairman Williams stated welcomed everyone to the Parks and Recreation May 2013 Board
meeting. Chairman Williams stated that he normally would have some Director’s comments at this
time but he stated that he is going to reserve his time for a special presentation that we are goiong to
have. Chairman Williams then asked Linda Burrello to please come up and Linda also instructed
Lynda Koontz to join her that she was not doing this alone. Lynda Koontz joined Linda Burrello at the
table before the Parks Board and and Chairman Williams greeted the ladies and Lynda Koontz
chuckled that they were the two Ly and Li. Linda Burrello stated that this is going to be harder than
she thought it was going to be. Lynda and she go back a long, long time around 50 years Linda
Burrello has known Lynda Koontz. Linda Burrello stated that of course she was supposed to retire
after her and now she has to be carefull about what she says about Linda because she will have the
last word. Linda replied “she always has”. Linda started playing softball and volleyball for Lynda
when she worked at Municipal Gardens and Garfield Park and of course she was on her softball
team and volleyball team and they would always take first place in the city-wide tournaments. Linda
was an outstanding volleball player and softball player. Of course, Lynda always tried to get her to
play on her basketball team but she would always tell her that she would have to practice her drums,
but basketball wasn’t really her sport. Then, of course, Linda talked about working for Indy Parks
and Mr. Strong hired Linda 43 years ago. Lynda stated that she was probably, fifteen. Linda replied,
five and the youngest employee ever hired. Lynda stated that then of course she moved up the latter
in Indy Parks and somehow, and she doesn’t know how this happened, she became her supervisor
for many, many years. Lynda told Linda that she has been a great leader, commrad in arms when it
came to your staff that worked under you. You were tuff, but loveable, and you saw the good in all
your staff, and some, you had to watch more than others, and that was probably Lynda. Linda is the
only person that she knows that could fire someone and they would both be laughing at the end. You
always knew when Betty “Beth” and Bosco “Linda” came to your family center together;

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Two
you knew you were probably in trouble. Lynda stated that as long as Linda and she have been with
Indy Parks, she is sure that you can find an Asset Tag on someone, somewhere. Here are some
programs that they have worked together on and these programs have gone down in Indy Park
history. They are the Pet Show, the Big Wheel Races that Linda came up with. City wide basketball,
Dust Bowl, now known as, the Mayor’s Peace Bowl, Marion County’s Gaurdian Home Christmas
Program, and her favorite, the Tiny Tot Queen and King, which was her favorite. Linda replied, yes,
st
and she is not bringing it back Joe before June 1 when she leaves. Lynda stated that she knows
that all Linda’s former staff wishes you would stay, but we all understand and we will mis your great
leadership, your dedication, your support you have always had and you have always had their backs.
We all want to wish you the best and we will remember your moto: Do the right thing, for the right
reason and for the right people”. Linda you are a committed friend, friend to park users, staff and
city. You have left a huge impact on the park system and will be missed a great deal. Thank you for
all you have done. Lynda asked Ellery Manual to come up and present Linda with a gift (plaque)
token from Indy Parks appreciation. Ellery read the plaque which stated “In greatful appreciation for
your 43 years of dedicated service, outstanding leadership and exceptional contribution to the City of
Indianapolis, the Department of Parks and Recreation with great love and admiration, your fellow
past and present Indy Parks employees. Linda made a joke about what was in the box – probably for
her name tag. Also Lynda pointed out the overhead slides of old pictures of Linda and the Chicken
car etc. Linda said whoever was in charge of getting those pictures was hers later… Everyone
laughed, then Linda spoke stating that she appreciates Indy Parks and that it has been first and
foremost Indy Parks has been a wonderful 43 years on June 1st she was hired and this man, pointing
to Joe Wynns was part of Indy Parks then and will forever be a friend. John had been instrumental in
some things that have happened recently and it has been a great career and she has had a great
staff and has probably had the strongest team ever the last four or five years. She had 17 managers
at one point and it has been a great career and she is ready after 43 years to hang out at her lake
cottage and travel some and she is not gone, she may be back to haunt everybody, it could happen.
It has been a wonderful career and she appreciates all that the Board has done and she can’t believe
that she got through this without crying, so thank you. Linda went around the Board and hugged
everyone. Joe Wynns stated that he always named Linda “Special K”because she was truly
special. He could remember her going into areas probably people do not recognize it anymore,
Brightwood, and Stringtown and the valley fighting for programs for those children down there.
Concord Village, Leo Blow, Claudia McCissik, he is calling some names of people you probably don’t
even know about. These were tough areas, and at Municipal Gardens and she hung in there and
that is why he was always impressed with Linda and named her Special K and he wasn’t talking
about the cereal, he was talking about that she was special and she never forgot the people and this
is important when you are in the people business. People before paper. Linda made sure that when
Joe was there that he never forgot. Another thing he will say quickly that Linda is an “A” personality,
and you want “A” people working for you because those people will debate you and after the debates
were over if we were going left, she went left. She didn’t go half left, and when we would debate an
idea or programs like that tiny tot contest, he still has visuals of those one-year olds walking around
there with their diapers falling off, but it worked. Linda was special and she will always be Special K
to him and take

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Three

care of herself and they will be talking. Director Williams stated that before we move on, he would
like to say a couple of things. He has been with the City for 13 years and he has had the priviledge a
number of people that have retired from the City and have had a number years of service and 43
years is a long time and a lot of folks do not understand the commitment that goes with this not the
individual as an employee but the family commitment that the family has to have to support and he
commends the family as well. He knows that Linda has all her children with her today in the
audience. Tyler, Tracy and Chris. John stated that sometimes people forget the commitment that is
made by the family and sometimes it is a sacrifice that the family has to endure for someone who has
been working for so long and being so dedicated to a job and he always tells that a job is not a way
of life, it shouldn’t be it should be a means for living but you have to take care of your job so you can
take care of your family. Putting in 43 years is a labor of love in his estimation so thank you Linda it
has been a pleasure knowing you and working with you for the past year and he hopes all the best
for her. God Bless. Dr. Greenwood stated that she wanted to thank Linda for the memories and
thank you for all that you have done for our students and our children, for the Parks Department and
she always had a smile on her face, so thank you. Chairman Williams stated that he thinks it is time
to move on now so Board members could he have an entertainment for a motion for the approval of
the minutes of the April 25th meeting.
Approval of Minutes: April 25, 2013
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Mr. Wynns, and unanimously passed to
approve the minutes of April 25, 2013.
New Business
1. Agenda Item Resolution #23, 2013. – Authorization by the Board of Parks and Recreation
for the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana for the Indianapolis Local Public
Improvement Bond Bank to refund the Parks District 2003 bonds.
Greg Clark, greeted the Parks Board introducing himself as Deputy Director and General Counsel for
the Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank and stated that he is here today seeking this
Board’s approval for both Resolutions #23 and #24 which these resolutions are for the approval for
the Bond Bank to take advantage of low interest rates that currently are existing in the marketplace
and allow them to refinance these outstanding debts and save some money for the Parks
Department in their debt serice. He pointed out the slide that is on the screen shows the current debt
schedule and a revised debt schedule for 2014 to the maturity in 2018 that would realize and reduce
the annual debt service payments over the course of those four years, five years of approximately
$217,000 and he aquaints this as something similar to refinancing your home mortgage. They are
not extending the term of the debt and it will still mature in January 2018 and they are just asking for
approval to refund that and take advantage of lower interest rates. He is happy to address any
questions from the Board. Dr. Twyman asked if there were any other miscellaneous fees involved.
Mr. Clark replied that this is a deal that there is also 2003 D

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Four
series had multiple Q E’s and it is all backed by the City’s Geo, so there is throughfare, sanitary
district and all of those fees are taken for the whole, he guess you would say the cost of issuance
fees, the financial advisor, the Bond counsel and the rating agencies will be paid but this shows the
savings after those fees. Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board.
There were not.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Twyman, seconded by Mr. Wynns, and unanimously passed to
approve both Agenda Item #23 & 24, 2013.
Chairman Williams added that just for clarification the Board took both Agenda Item #23 and #24
being approve. Mr. Clark stated that Agend Item Resolution #24 is just the authorization for the
appropriation for budgetary purposes and that they recognize that these expenditures will be in the
Parks budget.
Chairman Williams stated that is is not often that we have people come here and stated that they
want to save the Parks Department money, so he appreciates that.
2. Agenda Item Resolution #24, 2013 – Authorization by the Board of Parks and
Recreation for the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana for Park District to issue its
bonds Series 2013, Series A (the “2013 Bonds”) in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $3,000,000 in order to refund the Bonds.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Twyman, seconded by Mr. Wynns, and unanimously passed to
approve both Agenda Item #23 & 24, 2013.
Mr. Clark thanked the Board and told them to have a great afternoon.
3. Agenda Item #25, 2013 – Authorization by the Board of Parks and Recreation of the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana for Drum Corp International, Inc. participants
and their chaperones to lodge overnight at Riverside Park, Perry Park and Christian Park
August 7, through August 10, 2013 during the annual Drum Corp International Competition
at Lucas Oil Stadium.
Dee Dickerson greeted the Board and stated that it is her pleasure to introduce Jeff Cox
with Drum Corp International and Jeff and she have been working together the last five
years in conjunction with the Parks staff and they come into town on August 7th and 10th and basically
what they do is they use our facilities to sleep overnight and if you have not ever had the opportunity to
attend there are thousands of kids and their parents and chaperones come to Indianapolis and Lucas
Olil Stadium for the Drum Corp International Competition. They have a wonderful website if you have a
chance to go out there you can actually see some live presentations but they are here before you today
to ask for permission for the kids, they chaperones, the bus drivers and everyone to spend the nights
at Perry Park, Christian Park, Riverside Park and some additional ones to be added if at all possible
Garfield and Krannert

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Five

Park. She stated that she will go ahead and let Jeff talk about Drum Corp International does and what
the partnership between Indy Parks and his organization means.
Mr. Cox stated that Drum Corp International moved its headquarters from Illinois to Indianapolis seven
years ago and they started their Drum Corp International championships at Lucus Oil Stadium and this
will be their fifth year in the stadium. The first year they were here in 2008 they were supposed to be
the first event in Lucus Oil but unfortunately their construction schedule ran a little bit behind and they
had to move it to Bloomington, Indiana to the IU campus. This will be the sixth year at Indianapolis of a
ten year contract which they probably will expand as well. Lucas Oil provides a great opportunity to
save our event and our in case of inclement weather and such. Two years ago was a perfect example
of this when we had the bad stroms that came across Indianapolis and they were inside. Drum Corp in
International has typically been an outside event but they have moved their championships every
couple of years. This is a new venture for them seeing one city provides them a lot of opportunity to
work with people such as yourselves and retain the continuity. It is a nonprofit organization, 501C3.
They promote over 100 events across the United States every year. These groups will start travelling
in a couple of weeks from California to the west coast to the east coast and inbetween doing major
events on weekends and sleep in sleeping bags, air mattresses, we have 150 students and 30 to 50
adults that travel with them and some of them even more that are instructors and professional music
educators that are traveling with these kids. This year there will be 35 corps participating in world
championships from the United States and across the US and from Canada and this year we actually
have a group from Tywan that is coming into town, so it is truly an international event. As he said they
range in size from 150 members down to about 35 members so we have from the smallest to the
largest.
The kids range in age pretty much from 14 to 21 years of age. They have what they call world class
corps and open class corps. The world class corps are the ones that will be on tour for the first 2
months of the year and the open class corps are the younger smaller groups that travel only on
weekends until they get ready for the weekend championships here. The prelimanarys are Thursday,
August 8 with all 35 corps competing on Lucas Oil Stadium. On Friday, August the 9th they have what
is called semi-finals with the 25 highest finalist’s scores taking place and Saturday, August 10th the top
12 corps scores in competition. It is all competition and is judged by a panel of judges across the
country as well, so it is a very intreging event for the spectators and for the kids. No one knows for
sure who is going to win until it is all over at the end. DCI provides housing locations for all these
groups. Typically what they look for is schools, parks, camps, places that have sleeping locations and
break-out rooms for the instructural staff, the drivers, cooks and if they have food trucks for food for the
kids and practice fields. They are using the schools in the area, parks in the area, and they are
probably within an hour and half from Indianapolis right now and they also use the fields for the
practice. These practices provides opportunities for the people in the neighborhoods to come out and
watch, interact, and he has been to sites where the people in the neighborhood come out and bring
cookies and cakes for the kids. It is really a social event for them and they can enjoy it. They have
actually provided tickets to park campers and park members if they

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Six

would like to come to the events on Thursday or Friday. These are complimentary tickets and they can
come in for the prelims and the semi finals and watch the event. Each corp provides a Certificate of
Insurance that names the City of Indianapolis as an additional insured and then they make
contributions based on this to the Indy Parks Department. Chairman Williams asked approximately
how many students approximately will be at each facility. Mr. Cox answered that it could range
anywhere from 50 to 150. Chairman Williams asked also what is the ratio of student and chaparone.
Mr. Cox replied it was 3 to 1. Dr. Greenwood asked which way. Mr. Cox replied 3 students to every
adult. Dr. Greenwood asked if the students that are 14 years of age are they going to be somewhere
clustered together, because you said you had ages 14 to 21 so. Mr. Cox stated that pretty much what
they do is they go into the gymnasm with the kids with the girls on one half of the gym and the guys are
on the other half of the gym and that is how they split it down the middle. In some places they are
fortunate enough to have a curtain in the middle or deviding wall. Some do some don’t and they are
pretty much accustom to doing it like this. They will be starting on tour here real soon and the 19th of
June is their first show and they will be on the road until they leave here on the 10 and 11th of August.
Dr. Greenwood asked if the chaporone will be with these children at all times. Mr. Cox answered that it
depends on what groups they are, but yes they have a certain amount of staff, (they don’t use the word
“chaprone” Sometimes we use the word staff, volunteers, support staff, and they will be yes. Dr.
Twyman asked if any of the groups will be staying longer than one night. Mr. Cox answered “yes”.
They will ber staying Wednesday night, Thursday night and Friday night and departing Saturday. They
control when they arrive to Indianapolis after 5:00 on Wednesday the 7th and they control when they
leave either in the morning or the afternoon depending on what they are doing on Saturday and they
will be here for multiple nights. Dr. Twyman reaffirmed that the parks facilities will have ample
accomodations as far as rest rooms and shower facilities. Mr. Cox answered that rest rooms are not a
issue for them. Basically the showers do become a bit of an issue we have to deal with for example
that Christrian Park only has 4 showers. They can work with it. It is a little less fortunate and they
would like to have at least six per gender. As long as the Corps knows what they have to work with
they can adjust their schedules to doing that it just takes them longer to shower and what they will do is
probably for the evening before they go to the competition, they will have half the corps eat their meals
and then the other half of the corps will shower and then they will switch it around. They work very well
with the schedule on this. They run into this problem a lot, it is not ideal, but it is workable. Dr.
Greenwood asked if the facilities that Indy Parks has to clean, becomes the responsibility of the Corps
staff, or the Parks facilities. Mr. Cox answered that basically what they do is that they look after it like
this… They have the moto that if they keep the facilitys clean, if not, cleaner than what we find it. The
other thing that they do ask for is cleaning utensils, dry mops, wet mops, vacume cleaners, access to a
dumpster. He thinks he mentioned that they are going to have food that they are going to serve to the
people and they have mobil food kitchens and they create some refuge so they do need the access to
the dumpsters and they have worked through this in the past. This will be the fifth year and the sixth
year that they have actually done this and it has worked very well. Riverside and Perry have been
staples for the youth centers throughout the years. Dr. Twyman asked if there were City staff, I guess
this is a question for you Chairman Williams, a City staff person assigned, or on site or on call on the
site during the time that they

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Seven

are at these centers. Chairman Williams stated that he will defer that question to Dee Dickerson. Dee
stated that they do have staff on site and typically what they do is that this is the week that our pools
close, the previous weekend and their day camps end, so they typically will keep our seasonal staff on
for additional time, that way they get an extra weeks worth of salary before they go back to school and
we do have staff on site and notify sonitrol security systems and the park rangers that we do hav
people staying overnight in the buildings overnight so they know not to worry about alarms or anything
of that nature and then the park managers will usually rotate, she knows that like at Perry Park, she
knows that the park manager and the assistant manager, they have had the same Corps stay there for
the last five years so they pretty much even know the kids and it is like “old home” week for a lot of
them They will stay overnight with the staff also. We bill them for all the staff hours they are using
and this is a condition in the the rental fees. We look at it as a “win, win” proposition for Indy Parks
becaue they are giving us some revenue that ordinarily we would not have and with expandin some of
the facilities it is additional revenue for us and we are providing them with low income, lower than what
it would be for a hotel, housing, plus it gets them out into the parks. Again, they have the same group
staying Perry Park, from Edinburg Texas, and the same group staying at Riverside Park, from New
London, Connecticut. It exposes them to a little bit of Indianapolis and it exposes Indy Parks to a little
bit of other states and everything. We almost had the opportunity to host the group from Taiwan, but
they are finding housing at the International Center so that works out very well for them. We have
been always excited to host the Drum Corps here and she remembers the first year that they came her
reaction was “We are doing what?” She knows that it has become a yearly event and they put it on
their calendars and plan for it accordingly.
Mr. Wynns stated that he doesn’t have a problem with the overnight it is the mixing of 14 and 21 year
old kids and the chaperoneing. He would advise that there be some type of separation as to how the
division of these kids is handled in these centers. Dr. Twyman added division of male, female and Mr.
Wynns added division by age group too. Mr. Wynns stated that we don’t want some parent coming
back and stating that their child got touched at one of our centers by the upper age group. Mr. Wynns
stated that he is not trying to tell him how to run their program but he knows that if you have 14 and 22
year olds together sometimes presents problems. Mr. Cox stated that these groups are staying in the
parks particularly and he mentioned that there are two different classifications of corps, the world class
and the open class corps. The world class corps are going to be more of the 19, 20, 21 year olds and
are the groups that will be participating all summer long and the groups that are just typically doing this
on week-ends and stuff are more of the 14 to 18 year olds and are the open class corps. Mr. Wynns
stated so there will not be any 19 to 21 year old participants at the centers. Mr. Cox answered no, only
some of the staff members of this will be there. Chairman Williams said thanks for clarifying. Mr. Cox
stated that the 19 to 21 year olds are more of an adult group. Typically they are larger in group size as
well. Most of those in the world class corps have 150 members. Mr. Wynns reiterated that there will
be 18 and under age groups at the centers. Mr. Cox replied “yes”. Mr. Cox appologized that he didn’t
make that more clear when he was talking about the division of the classifications. Dr. Greenwood
stated that Dee mentioned that this has been going on for the past few years, and asked how

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Eight

long we have been doing it. Dr. Greenwood stated that this is her first time hearing about it. Dee
Dickerson answered her by saying it will be our 5th year. Dr. Greehwood stated, “o.k.” so it hasn’t
come before the Board before correct Dee answered no it has not come before the Board. Dr.
Twyman asked why is it coming now. Dee answered that in previous years they were directed to draft
a memo to the Director because the Board at some point had given its approval empowerment to the
Director to approve overnight stays in our parks. It has been decided that we will follow the ordinance
as it is written and bring their requests before the Parks Board. Chairman Williams added that this was
essentially because of the fact that we have people staying in the parks overnight he felt like it was
more appropriate for us to say we need to seek our counsel and say, what does the ordinance say and
Dee has done a good job in making sure that we troubleshoot and make sure that we are following
what the ordinance says we are supposed to do with regard to folks staying in the parks overnight.
Again it has been a working relationship and they havn’t had any incidents over the years so he feels
confident that we will be able to continue this partnership. Mr. Cox added that from his standpoint, it
has worked fantastically, the kids like it, and rather than a school which is a concreate jungle to them
they are able to get out underneath the trees and it is a real benefit for them as well. Chairman
Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. There were none. Dr. Greenwood
stated that she would have to sustain because of the students and her relationship with the schools.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Dr, Twyman, and unanimously passed to
approve both Agenda Item #25, 2013.
4. Agenda Item #26, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation for the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana’s Director of the Department of Parks and
Recreation, authority to begin the necessary procedures, according to the Public Parks
and Recreation Naming Policy, revised September 22, 2010, to formally name the property
located at 3252 Sutherland Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana “Reverend Charles A. Williams
Park”.
Chairman Williams greeted Deputy Director, Jen Pittman and she greeted the Board
stating that she is here today to ask for the Board’s authorization to proceed with
Agenda Item #26, 2013 which is a naming of a park. This park, as we can tell, was
never officially named Sutherland Park but has come to be known as Sutherland Park
by the neighborhood and the community around it and has become so well known as
Sutherland Park that that name has even found its way onto the City’s Open Space
Plan and GIS maps so for that purpose we felt that it was appropriate to come at this as
we were renaming a park that had been named properly. What we are asking is for the Boards
approval to follow our stated renaming procedures for a park and we would like to propose the
“Reverend Charles A. Williams Park”. A few months ago, Greg Wilson, who is the Director of
Minority and Business Development for the City of Indianapolis, shared some community input that
was gathered by neighbors, it was also gathered from a couple of our Council members, Councilor
Oliver and Councillor Simpson, and in the packet you have in front of you, you have some letters of
reccomendations of support from those individuals.

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Nine

The idea came about to name this park after Reverend Charles Williams who is an Indianapolis
native, an alumnis of Chrispus Attics High School and the first president of Indianapolis Black Expo in
1983 he became the first official president of that organization. Since that time and before his death
in July of 2004 he became and remained one of the most influential black leaders in the City of
Indianapolis. What they ar asking at this is for the Board to authorize staff to request a published
notice sometime during the next 30 days it would go in the Indianapolis Star and we would leave a
comment period open for 30 days and during that time anyone who wanted to say anything, any
regard, positive, negitive, or just a neutral comment on this could send those types of comments to
Director Williams. With that, if we get anything back or if we don’t get anything back from that period,
we would like to come back to this Board with what we have gathered during that 30 days on June
th
27 , or the date of our next Board meeting, if that happens to change and we would seek adoption of
the naming recommendation. Mr. Wynns stated that he has just a couple of questions. He thinks it
is a good idea. What is the size of the park? And, what is the condition of it? And what is the master
plan of the park look. He knows where it is located but we want to make sure that when we rename
a park, it is representative of the deparment and what have you, so, his thing would be, and he will go
look at it again, that it needs to be a class “A” well kept and well looked park and he just put that out
there and he doesn’t know if this is something from the planing staff, from DPW, or whomever. He
just wants to know what the condition of the park is, how does the park look. Chairman Williams
answered that in the past few months they have actually have done a couple of community
outreaches for that park to start the process for master planning and dealing with what it is and what
that park would look like for future. There are a couple of things that he wants to highlight, one, is
that in talking to Mr. Wilson about particular naming of this park, of course, those of us who are not
from Indianapolis but have subsequently moved here quickly found out about who the Reverend
Charles Williams was. Not only with the Black Expo but as an African American male, he was very
instrumental in pushing forward this whole idea of getting tested for prostrate cancer so he did a lot
of good work in the community with regard to that and we think that is appropriate to name a park in
his honor. Chairman Williams thinks on the one hand Mr. Wynns is absolutely correct that we want
to make this park a jewel, and it could already look at it from that perspecitve we probably have parks
that are already named in honor of someone else or because of the geographical location or what
have you, that really makes it a little more difficult to do that in staying within the guidelines of our
policy. He thinks it gives us an opportunity as we develop this park, if you will, the flavor of the park
in with who Dr. Williams, or Reverend Charles Williams was. Mr. Wynns stated that the only reason
that he raised this issue is that the department made a couple mistakes before when they named 21st
and Tibbs after James Gains, they had to stop it because it was an embaressment to invite the family
out and we did the same thing for Attucks for a long time over there across from United Parcel. He is
saying that it is a good idea but we don’t get down the road with this and have to stop because it is
not presentable enough to put his name on it because Reverened Williams was the first African
American to serve in the Mayor’s office under Mayor Lugar taking care of minority concerns. He had
a great deep history of what he has done for this community and he world recommend that we put his
name on something that is representative of the department. Dr. Greenwood added that she

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Ten

wants to tell us something. You know him as being the political person and she knew him as being a
great person for education and he gave so much to the students of Indianapolis and he would reach
down to support them and help them to find ways to go college. The man was very giving and very
well respected. She would like to visit this park too and she thinks it is an excellent idea that we want
to do something to honor him because we lost a very good friend. Dr. Twyman stated that he
assumes, and maybe Greg could speak to this but, Black Expo for a number of years was housed at
St. Peter which would be close to where this park is and he doesn’t know if this was the historical
connect that we might have been going for or was this part of the thinking process? Chairman
Williams asked Greg Wilson to come up and introduce himself to the listening audience. He did.
That was the connection. They wanted to make sure that there was something connected to him that
those who had been in the community knew that that connection was there. He knows that the
reverend has a great legacy and even these great events that we have, the Summer Celebration and
the Classic and when you look at some of our top events here in the city that is in the top 10 bringing
revenue to the city and those two events are what he brought here and as you said, whether it was
education, prostrate cancer, the fact that he was a voice in the community overall and that was the
th
kind of focus that they had and this being the 30 year of Circle City Classic and they are trying to do
some big things this year we thought this would be something good for the community that we
recognize Reverend Williams. Dr. Greenwood stated that she commends him for that because that
is long over due and she thinks it is a wonderful idea that we do spruce it up, even thought she hasn’t
been there she is telling you, the man was wonderful. He reached back, he walked his talk and he
gave so much to our children. Dr. Twyman stated that Joe’s question still has not been answered.
Could you discribe the condition of this park? Size, look? Chairman Williams answered that he
doesn’t have the exact acreage. Chairman Williams looked to the audience for Andre and Jen if they
have the acreage. Jen stated she was sorry but she doesn’t have that and added that it is small. It
is a beginning and this is why we liked the idea of starting this naming process now, when Don and
his group had held some vision into its planning meetings with that part of the community, they were
well attended and there was an obvious level of interest in doing this and so there is some
momentum that is starting to happen there and she will say it is small, it is used, and it is loved. Mr.
Wynns stated that the reason he has said this is that he is almost positive with all the things that
Reverend Williams has done, if there was a master plan or a concept there would not be an issue of
raising funds for that park and there are a lot of people in the community who would jump on board
with coming up with resources and this is why he said that we want to do it right and he thinks funds
could be raised to make this park representative of what Reverend Willilams stood for in the
community. Greg added that this was one of the reason when he talked to John and talked to
councilors they thought that this would be a part that the community could get behind in the care and
upkeep of the park’s long term vision is that the African American community is more engaged and
involved and this is the perfect park for that and to even help bring that neighborhood up to where
they want to be. Greg stated that he apprecite all that the department and Board is doing. Chairman
Williams thanked Greg Wilson.

Board of Parks and Recreation
May 23, 2013
Page Eleven

Mr. Wynns aked so what do you need from us Chairman Williams. Dr. Greenwood stated that she
wants to make that motion. Chairman Williams stated that there is nothing really to vote on at this
point. Deputy Director Pittman stated that they need authorization to publish the notice if that is o.k.
Dr. Greenwood stated so moved. Dr. Tyman stated that he likes the idea particularly what Joe has
stated but he has held back because Charles is his cousin so but given the prominance and the fact
that he worked in the Mayors Office for a number of years he would probably prefer someone who
has had a little more visiablity in the city but he respects the community sentiment and maybe there
is a potential here to make something that is a little under the radar to be enhanced and dynamic.
Chaiman Williams stated that he certainly recognized and felt about too that not a being a person
from Indianapolis originally he does know Reverend Williams was and what he meant for the city and
he thought about that and wanted to be sensitive to the fact that the way we normally would work this
type of process is if we don’t have a park that has a name then the park staff asked what we name it,
well it will be Sutherland and 32nd Street Park or something like that until we come up with something
better. So here we have Greg and two councillors who have recommended that we name this park
after Reverend Williams, he has to assume, and he knows they did, do their do diligence at looking at
what is the significance of this particular area, so it may not be what we consider a pristeen or great
park today he thinks it also gives us the opportunity to make it into the image of what we are seeking
to do in naming it after Reverend Williams, so if we can do that and if we are dilgent as a park staff
and as a community in doing that he thinks we will be successful. Dr. Greenwood stated that she
wants to go on record that he was a wonderful man. Mr. Wynns also stated he was. Chairman
Williams stated he was and it is duly noted.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Dr, Twyman, and unanimously passed to
approve both Agenda Item #26, 2013.
A motion was duly made by Chairman Williams for adjournment, seconded by Mr. Wynns,
and unanimously passed to adjourn
Adjournment
The next Board of Parks and Recreation meeting is scheduled for June 27, 2013 at 3:45 p.m. to 5:00
p.m. in Room 260 of the City-County Building, 200 East Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana
46204.
SUBMITTED:

______
Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary

APPROVED:

John W. Williams, Chairman
Board of Parks and Recreation

Date

