BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
MINUTES OF October 24, 2013

The meeting of the Board of Parks and Recreation was called to order by Chairman Williams,
Thursday, October 24, 2013, at 3:45 p.m. Room 260, City-County Building, 200 East Washington
Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.

Board Members Present:

Chairman, John Williams, Dr. Jacqueline Greenwood, Mr. Joe
Wynns and, Mr. Josh Bowling

Staff Present:

Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary
Suzanne Martin, Assistant Board Secretary
Doug Kowalski, Deputy Corporation Counsel

Directors Announcements: Chairman Williams greeted the Board and the audience stating that
before we get started he has a couple of announcements. First, he would like everyone in the
viewing audience to know that tomorrow night we will have the Watkins Park and IMPD Park Ranger
Community Day and for those of you with children if you want to bring the kids out there will be
various activities that will be taking place at Watkins Park starting at 5:00 p.m. through 9:00 p.m.
There will be games, bounce houses, a movie and most of the activities will be taking place inside
the facility so if there is inclement weather things will carry on as planned. Again, if you have children
or if you would just like to stop by and have some fun please join us at Watkins Park tomorrow. Also,
in the next couple of weeks there will be a couple of things going on and we will speak a little bit
about these later within the board meeting in regards to the rededication of the fountains at Garfield
Park. On October 29th we actually will have the rededication ceremony letting folks know that the
fountains are back and running, lights are working, and to bring those back on line here at Indy
Parks. Later within the board meeting today these will be discussed and pictures shown of what they
look like now with the rennovations.
Finally, on October 31st, next Friday, there will be a party on Halloween night at Windsor Park from
6:00 to 8:00 p.m. so if you have children and you want to enjoy some festivities at one of our parks
please join us at Windsor Park from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., next Friday, October 31st. These are all of
the announcements that he has today.
Approval of Minutes: None
New Business
1. Agenda Item Resolution #44, 2013 – The Department of Parks and Recreation requests the
Board of Parks and Recreation of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana, authorize the
grant of a perpetual, non-exclusive easement for use by tw telecom of Indiana, Inc. in
conjunction with a project to install Citizen Energy Group project number 92TU00230 a
sanitary drop shaft at Graham Edward Martin Park (formerly known as 16th Street and Fall
Creek Park) which is located at 1200 Fall Creek Parkway East Drive, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Don Colvin greeted the Board and stated that what is on the overhead screen is is a picture of
th
Graham Edward Martin Park and on the west side of this park at Indiana Avenue and 10 Street and
he pointed out the most recent Buckingham project where the old YMCA used to be is the area they

are currently talking about. This situation which was originally one of the Department of Public
Works project, the Deep Tunnel Project, or Indy Dig, where they are trying to separate some of the
storm events with our sewer and bring them down into the deep rock limestone within our system.
This is generating some activity and they had a utility line, tw telecom had a line up on a utility pole
that stretched across and because of the type of construction project this was they had to bring in
some big cranes and they had to drop their lines and what they are asking the Board to approve is to
allow their lines to remain underground instead of bringing those lines back up on the top of the utility
pole and hang them like they would traditionally would the electrical line from pole to pole. This is
pretty much what they are asking which is about 15 feet wide and between 108 to 109 feet long. As
you can see the project has disturbed what was originally a walking trail around there and the trail
would be put back there and we would just simply put the trail over the existing easement for
recreational purposes. Don stated that he is not sure if he has a representative here from tw telcom
today and he looked throught the audience and he did not.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any questions from the Board members. Mr. Wynns asked if
those lines are currently over the property. Don replied that they used to be prior to the Big Dig
project and that is what is generating this conversation right now for the act of an easement which
there was an air easement previously. Mr. Wynns asked how close is this to the old Blocks property.
Don replied, are you speaking of the Cancer Survivors Park. Don asked Suzanne to flip the
PowerPoint slide back to the arial photography picture where he can use the pointer and show where
this site is in comaparison with the Cancer Survivor’s Park. As you start to go up over the bridge it is
right there at the edge of the bridge. Mr. Wynns asked if we can get anything more than just the
repair of the trail. Don suggested discussing that during the next agenda item which is very similar in
nature and this item is strictly just a utility line. Don stated that either the line goes back into the
ground which staff would like to recommend that it stays in the ground or the line comes back up on
the pole and it gets put back how it existed previously. If it goes back on the pole visually it becomes
sort of a visual imparement if you would.
Dr. Greenwood askled that for safety reasons is it o.k. to go back under the ground. Don replied,
yes. Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board members. There
were none.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item #44, 2013.
2. Agenda Item #45, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of the City of
Indianapolis, Indiana for the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana authorize the grant of a
perpetual, non-exclusive easement to Citizens Energy Group (dba the Department of Public
Utilities), hereinafter “DPU”) in conjunction with a project to install a deep shaft sanitary
system at Graham Edward Martin Park (formeraly known as 16th Street and Fall Creek Park)
which is located at 1200 Fall Creek Parkway East Drive, Indianapolis,Indiana.
Don stated that this is the exact same location as we were speaking of previously in Agenda Item
#44, 2013 in the same disturbed area but we are talking about this little zone in the corner now.
Based on this project this is the project that actually disturbed the site when Buckingham did their
development they put in a walking path that started over in the corner over by the Cancer Survivor
Park and then went up to another zone that Don pointed out on the overhead and stated that this is a
Citizen’s Energy project and what they are proposing upon the completion of this project is to realign
that trail back to the existing sidewalk and where it originally went one way it will tie into the top end
of the route and put the trail back. They also will be establishing the lights back along the trail that
was there previously and regrading the site so it is easy to maintain. Don made mention of the red
outline on the overhead show their permanent easement that is being asked for and that comes with

2

a series of different things. There is an entrance way that they have to get to to service that. There
is a utility building and some screen mechanizams that they have to clean out some of the pipes in
that and he does have three representatives from Citizens Energy here today that can speak to really
the details and Joe, answer some of the questions that you may have about what it is. Again, this
was a project that was originally started under DPW it is kind of the consent decree that separates
sewer from our utility lines and this will be occurring throughout the City of Indianapolis for a number
of years and a lot of these will be on Indy Park's properties. Don asked if there were any questions
for Citizens Energy anyone of the three members to come up and clarify. Chairman Williams asked
the Board if they have any questions for Citizens or Don. Josh stated that they only time he has
actually spent a significant time in this park is for cross country meets since this had become quite a
place for cross country meets. Josh asked if in any way does this affect the course here and will this
effect the long term use of this park?
Don stated that this is an excellent question and the Citizens contractors met with Greg Hager who is
the coach that runs many of those events and he runs a very elete group as well as the high school
events and they are actually shaping the land and Don pointed to the turn point for the high school
groups and noted that it is actually like out at the Speedway where they have the bank. Don pointed
to the land that will be shaped so as to when the runners come around that is a turn point and
Citizens has been very sensitive to the needs of the course and that and that will all be put back into
place. They never really ran on that section anyway but he showed where they turn and go all the
th
way out to 16 Street. Then there is another course down below the levy that goes onto the bridge
and there is a main course down where the White River State Park is located and NIFS. This is a
main course and it is a great viewing spot because you are up on the embankment and the runners
are up above and the runners are down below and this is one of the challenges when you go to a
cross country meet, you only get little windows of opportunity to see the runners where that course
and Graham Martin Park provides a wonderful viewing opportunity. Don stated that they intergrated
that into this project.
Mr. Wynns has just a couple of questions. Obviously he is a park land advocate and he is always
concerned about development on Park property and he knows the importance of separating
sanitation and storm water sewer and he supports that effort, he is not against that, but with all these
projects coming onto Park land his thing is going to be that there should be some development to the
possitive aspect of that park instead of just putting the park back where it was before being tworn up
and Indy Parks should get something back to enhance that park. He doesn’t know whether it would
be signage, or resurfacing basketball courts, or something and we want to be supportive and we
want to be a partner and understand the importance of making the City a better city, but we just don’t
want Park land to be up there just because it is Park land. He is interested in that and number 2) he
is interested in the building, he knows you talked about the design and there is going to be a building,
and we have success with buildings and unsuccess with buildings. Like the building there at Alice
Carter Park that sits there and is a stone building and it looks like a piece of junk but we can’t move
it. We have good buildings that and we have one building where a house was built over a lift station.
And we have the buildings at 46th and Arsenal that look good. His concern would be that if you are
going to do a building, it has to be compatible to that park and we just don’t stick a stone building
there and we want some type of landscaping and we want to look at how that road, and Don you are
a landscape architect and you understand all that, we just don’t want it to be a brick building stuck up
there in the middle of the park. Those would be his concerns that there would be some consideration
on the beautification and landscaping of that building and how that building is compatible to that park
and get some type of enhancement in the park. He doesn’t want to be againt storm water because
he understands the importance of it, but he just wants to make sure that they get something and that
when we put buildings in parks that they be compatible to the park. Don stated that he could answer
that but he would actually like to ask a representative from Citizens Energy come up and he believes
they would do a fine job of responding to that type of concern.

3

Chairman Williams added that as they come up he would like to add that he has met with Citizens
Energy and talked about how they will restore the park and as Joe mentioned, how they would enhan
e the park and he thinks John will give us some pretty good information about what it is that Citizens
is prepared to do and the conversations that we have had this far to insure that the Indy Parks
system is going to benefit from having this kind of relationship.
Chairman Williams asked the Citizens representatives to introduce themselves. John Trifus, Director
of Special Projects at Citizens Energy Group and their prime focus is the deep funnel system for
combined sewer overflow and as you mentioned that is part of the City’s consent decree and over
they years the work he has been involved with the past eight years or so on the project through work
as consultant and then with Citizens they have worked with Indy Parks and had recent workshops
and they understand and they are developing the building so it fits in with the area and they are
looking at redoing the fences and they make sure to coordinate with Don and his group to make sure
that everything is suitable as well as landscaping and they absolutely understand this and they are
prepared to work with Indy Parks and leave it better than they found it and even add amenities as are
appropriate. Joe stated that if that is comfortable consent. Chairman Williams stated that as we
move along most of the projects that they are going to start, have not come on line yet, Indy Parks
has been in conversation with John and Citizens, and he has actually had several conversations with
them and as they move along in their planning process we will sit down with them and talk more
specifically about those parks that will be impacted and what needs to take place and as John said
before that if there is an opportunity for us to add an amenity it would certainly be ammicable to do
this. They have already discussed this. We really are not at that point yet to start making those
kinds of decisions because they haven’t gotten to those other larger projects yet but they will be
coming down the pipe. Joe mentioned that what would help him as a Board member is that as you
identify these locations is that they as a Board get some type of a packet of where these projects are
going to take place, etc. What some of the drawings will look like before they start as well? That
way they will not have be addressing the Board one at a time and that way if there are 10 locations in
mind; just think through how this information can become some type of packet that way as a Board
they can all have the information. Mr. Wynns stated that they know things can change and they
understand that. Mr. Wynns asked for a heads-up on upcoming projects and what parks are going to
be impacted, what some of the amenities might be something like that to give them a little more
information.
Don answered, if Director Williams is comfortable, staff just had the benefit because Citizens invited
his whole staff to, Stewardship, Planners, Construction team to a presentation which went over their
future projects all the way to 2025 and they gave us a little photo packet, and again it is a high level
look, but he thinks it is informative and if John is o.k. with that he would be happy to make copies and
share that with the Board. Mr. Wynns replied, just for the knowledge of knowing what is going on
within the parks and they know that it could change but it gives the Board a little more information.
Director Williams stated that John has been good about meeting with folks, he and the director talked
about a couple of individuals that they met with to let them know kind of what was going to happen
and this really impacts the property and potentially would impact them, he would only caution and
Doug you can maybe weigh in on this, as far as the open door laws are concerned as far as
meetings and the Board is concerned, if we are going to do a meeting, it may have to be here at the
Parks Board meeting because of those kinds of legal rammifications, but it it is a onesy twosy, he
would recommend taking a look at the deep tunnel and seeing how it operates and those kinds of
things just to give you a little bit of an understanding on what it is going to look like because initially it
may seem kinda of scary when folks see that they are going to dig a hole on Parks property, but
once that operation takes place, because you are probably going to get people calling and saying
there is going to be all this noise, well there is going to be some noise and we can’t say that there
won’t be but when you go down in there and you hear the operation going on, from the top side you

4

are not going to be able to tell other than the equipment that is there and they do a very good job of
making sure that they mitigate for the dust and those kinds of things and they do a good job of traffic
control and what have you so, again, if John is willing to do this from Citizens end, and he doesn’t
know if he has been still doing the tours, you know, John said absolultely. Mr. Wynns stated tht he
knows they did a deep tunnel dig at Highland Park and they put the park back together and the Parks
Department got some amenities out of it and what have you. Don stated that it has been well
maintained since then. Mr. Wynns asked what is the plan to role this out. How do you deal with the
different neighborhoods when you do stuff like this? Don stated that these questions are for John.
John answered that they do a lot of work, his public communications office does a lot of work at
Citizens as well as with the City and Parks and any area they are going to impact they are doing a
series of public meetings and most of their projects as Don indicated, their concent degree is at the
end of 2025 and so most of their planning they have years to work together and this is their intent so
they are in design of a lot of these and getting their preliminary things together and moving and
altering things as much as we can and try to maintain a best value type project, so that is an ongoing
thing and this particular site is somewhat on a fast track because that is a redevelopment coridor so
Bush Stadium and some of the other developments is to try to get it in even though the tunnel will not
actually be there for another four or five years and it was to get some of that infrastructure so we
wouldn’t come back and tear things up. Don stated that as far as the architecture building they are
working with Citizens to try to mimick what Buckingham used on their new building, so it is a modular
builiding but they are trying to be sensitive to the roofline, the type of brick color, and they have to
fence it in, and as a landscape architech, he perfers not to have a fence but he understands the
safety issues that are related to that and just the general public getting into this and some of this is
very high voltage materials and you do not want people to mess with it. Don stated that they are
going to try to be astetically sensitive as much as they can with this project. Don stated that they are
kind of confined a little bit by its proximity to the bridge and to the street but this was the nature of
how they had to go underneath Indiana Avenue. There were limitations there, he has forgotten the
distance, but there is a pretty significant bore under that street.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. There were none.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item #45, 2013.
3. Agenda Item #46, 2013 – Authorization by the Board of Parks and Recreation of the
Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana to authorize the Director of Indy Parks to enter into
a ground lease with the Challenge Foundation Academy for the Vision Academy at Riverside
located at Kuntz Stadium, 1502 West 16th Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Chairman Williams greeted Julee Jacob, Senior Special Project Manager mentioned that as the
Board probably remember, we talked about this not too long ago but as they were working through
the lease agreement they came up with a couple of issues that due to the financing structure that a
charter school will use, it was different than what they would normally see when they work with
schools that are developed in parks. So it was determined that the best way to deal with this would
be to go through a formalized request for proposal process. They did develop a request for proposal
which was advertised through the City’s purchasing website and they did receive a proposal from
Challenge Foundation Academy for the development of the Vision Academy at Riverside. The terms
of the agreement are exactly the same as what they had discussed before as far as improvements to
Kuntz Stadium, the term of the lease, the shared use of the facilities and also the land replacement.
At this time we are requesting that we award the lease to the Challenge Foundation Academy for the
development of the Vision Academy at Riverside and we ask that you authorize the Director to enter
into a lease with them.

5

Chairman Williams asked if there were any questions from the Board. Mr. Wynns stated that he
believes he missed that Board meeting, he was in Denver. With the improvement to the stadium,
what are they planning to do? Ms. Jacob replied that it has been up to us to determine what
improvements are made and the staff has determined that the most important improvements are to
seal the stadium and prevent water from infiltrating into the locker rooms and doing locker room
improvements and if we have funds left then they will look at improving the main soccer field, the east
field.
Mr. Wynns stated that there is one thing that he wants to say and that is, this information of
improvements is great and he is glad to see. The fence removal was one of the major reasons they
lost the state tournament. With a State tournament you can’t have fans running on the field. He
would hope that if they ever plan to bid for that State soccer tournament again, because with State
tournaments you have to be able to separate the fans from the players and especially the official in
case they make a bad call. At the time this was a major concern. They had to move the tournament
because of security and the need to secure the players or the officials during a game. He just
wanted to throw that out and those things that you mentioned obviously are much more important
than the fence.
Chairman Williams reiterated the same concerns were looked into. He stated that they will try to
maximize as much as they can as far as the improvements there with the relationship that we will
have with the Academy and they will go back and look into this issue with the fence in their
discussions with the Academy.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item #46, 2013.
4. Agenda Item 12A, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of the Consolidated
City of Indianapolis, Indiana for the Change Order #1 with Ellis Electrical and Mechanical, for
the additional rennovation work on the Garfield Park Sunken Gardens in the amount of
$109,144.13.
David Teachout greeted the Board and he apologized that they see Danny Swails name on the
agenda as presenting this item. He is not here and David is presenting for him. There is
$109,000.00 worth of change order on this job. He will go to item number 12 listed here which is the
highest dollar value and this is actually to change out the control system that they currently have in
the conservatory and to put a new control system in. The one that is there now doesn’t work. They
thought that since they already have a good control contracter doing the work on the fountain part of
this project that they could do this work as well.
The other high-dollar item was the need to modify the pump packages that they purchased for this
system. The City of Indianapolis purchased all the pumps, motors and including the new vault on our
own and then they had Ellis Mechanical install it as part of the job. What they purchased didn’t seem
to fit and theses charges here are to modify what we purchased in order to fit. With that being said,
they had a rather extensive conversation with the fountain people yesterday about us not paying this
ourselves. He has to incorporate this into a change order because what that does, is this work
becomes part of the 3 year warranty bond and they can make sure that this is all covered during that
3 year time period. They are working with the fountain people to determine how much of this almost
$15,000.00. Items number 3 numbers 7 and number 9 that are all related to things that the fountain
people we thought should be obligated to pay and they are working through thouse issues right now.
The rest of the items they changed where they tie into water that leaves the fountains. They
changed the board and there are 12 additional lights that were not part of the original package that
was determined would enhance the fountains so they shipped 12 additional lights and they installed

6

them and this is a value added so they went ahead and this is a pay item that we think we should do.
There are some broken lines and in order to keep the water out of the vault they added an extra
sump pump into the existing vault to get the water out quicker and the other thing, item number 8.
When they started these fountains up and they put the water into the fountains, it was the prettiest
blue color you ever saw and as soon as they turned on the first pump it went black. There is a lot of
debris in the existing piping from the old system, rust, leaves, all sorts of debris and it took coming
out in a five gallon bucket load and they had to fill it up and run water through and clean them up and
there was at least 30 gallons of debris that they pulled out of these things so, they were trying to get
all the debris out and get everything running back to a clear condition again.
nd

Number 11, they are done with the job September 2 , just before Labor Day, and this is actually the
maintenance that they need to do on a daily or weekly basis, depending upon what they have to do,
in order to keep the fountains operational, so this is what this is.
David stated tht he has some pictures for the Board to see on the overhead screen of the work as it
transpired during the course of the construction. David stated that you can see the wiring that they
pulled through and this is all control and electrical wiring that they had to pull from the Conservatory
down into the fountains which are 19 miles of wiring. David gave the Board a brief discription of the
pictures of the pumps as they were being installed into the vaults. There were several broken pipes
that they had to fix. He pointed out the new vault that was purchased beside his van so you could
see how big this thing actually was. This vault contains all the control work for the lights themselves
and then set into the ground. There was a photo of the wiring that they had to rework it. There was
a phot of preping the basins to make ready for their painting. There was a photo of the LED light that
they have in the fountains. Then there was a photo of the actual control panel that sits inside the
conservatory. This is the type of control panels that was sitting inside the vaults that got wet and
were ruined and this is the new control panel. Then he had photos of the beautiful pictures of the
fountains in action with the colored lights etc.
Mr. Wynns asked if this was $109,000 on top of what has already been spent. David answered,
“Yes” and again, $64,000 of it is not fountain specifically related but it is for this system and in the
conservatory. Mr. Wynns asked if this was a part of the original scope of work. David answered that
this was a change order that happended during the course of the construction, yes.
Mr. Wynns stated that they are very expensive to operate and he knows that this is not going to be
the end. Don Colvin asked if he could speak to this comment and did so. Don stated that they were
able to negotiate with the Friends of Garfield Park and for 2014 this $11,000 is taking the
maintenance until the end of the year and it is going to winterize the pumps but in 2014 the Friends
board approved that they are going to take on the maintenance for 2014. They will be opening the
pumps and close the pumps and they are going to try to work with a local vender that is very familiar
and knowledgable with these pump systems and they are trying through their champains and
different sponsorships they are trying to raise the money for 2015 to again take over and they are
trying to transition the long-term care and maintenance of the fountains to the Friends group because
they think this is a better home to put that activity in. Mr. Wynns stated that these costs will drain the
department dry. He said that when you talk to the Friends they should be encouraged to be setting
up an endowment. Because these kinds of facilities like this can be a draining monster, especially
with the departments budget shrinking like it its. Mr. Wynns stated that you will spend all your capital
dollars at that fountain but they are nice and they are pretty and he knows that people like them but
he thinks he would encourage the Friends of Garfield Park, like Holliday has an endowment and you
try to get the Friends of Eagle Creek to set up an endowment and they need to not just focus on the
maintenance, they should be saying how do we raise money as an endowment so when you need
replacements then the endowment takes care of it and not Indy Parks. Chairman Williams stated
that as Don mentioned we have had conversations with them about the long term maintenance as

7

well as the long term care of these pumps at the Sunken Gardens and part of that is going to have to
be a strategy on how we are going to deal with how we do sponsors and and those kinds of things so
we actually have talked with the Friends of Garfield Park about what their role should be with regard
to developing some of these kinds of relationships. You are absolutely right, from the entire agency
perspective we are looking at that because we are not just talking about Garfield Park and the
Sunken Gardens there we are talking about our system as a whole and the kinds of relationships and
the kind of partnerships that we have to start cultivating and creating in order to maintain some of
these amenities that we already have on board so I appreciate that comment and that thought
because that is something that we have already had a conversation with the Friends of Garfield Park.
Mr. Wynns stated that what will happen down the road that Holliday will come with the idea of if you
put 1.2 million dollars into Garfield Park then Don why can’t you get the fountains running at Holliday.
Don stated that they have been pretty successful at Holliday. They have for a number of years now,
maintained the round ball outside and they are almost complete, they still need some last little bit of
dollars to be 100% successful and they have taken on the complete cost of raising the funds for the
design and refreshing of the Ruins and they are asking the City to just support them in their initiatives
but they have not asked for any financial support. Don stated that he thinks this is the model that
they would like to point to as a success story. Chairman Williams asked if there were any other
questions from the Board. There were none.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Dr. Greenwood, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item #12A, 2013.
Jen Pittman, Deputy Director of Indy Parks and Andy Stephens, Senior Manager of Marketing of Indy
Parks gave a presentation to the Board informing them on the sale stats with regard to alcohol sales
at Indy Park facilities. She stated that they established best practices for our popular event venues
such as Broad Ripple, Garfield is another as well as Eagle Creek. More than anything Indy Parks
didn’t go out and promote beer as a central part of any of our events but they worked with Sunking
offering this as an enhanced experience to some of our park goers and to benefit our marketing
effort. Our bike-in movies that we tried this summer which were a huge success. Everything was
pretty well controlled and this gave us a good template to know how to do this in the future at these
type of venues. Andrew Stephens is here to answer specific questions regarding the graph on the
overhead screen.
Angie Daniel, CFO for Indy Parks gave a brief presentation to the Board depicting a budget recap.
Angie provided a PowerPoint slide of several years actual and proposed figures to show comparison.
She explained how the funding meant through four different funds. Angie gave an overview of the
shift of DPR union staff to DPW and the actual buget dollars being transferred there as well for those
staff members. We brought those staff back under DPR and then we also moved DPR Resource
Development Staff over to DPW along with their capital dollars and budgeted monies for these staff
members.
We ran out of time for Don Colvin to give his presentation on the CIP so Chairman Williams and Don
agreed that Don would give his presentation at our November Parks Board meeting.

Adjournment
A motion was duly made by Chairman Williams for adjournment, seconded by Mr. Wynns,
and unanimously passed to adjourn.

8

The next Board of Parks and Recreation meeting is scheduled for November 21, 2013 at 3:45 p.m. to
5:00 p.m. in Room 260 of the City-County Building, 200 East Washington Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46204.

SUBMITTED:

APPROVED:

______
Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary

John W. Williams, Chairman
Board of Parks and Recreation

Date

9

