BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
MINUTES OF February 28, 2013

The meeting of the Board of Parks and Recreation was called to order by Chairman
Williams, Thursday, February 28, 2013, at 3:45 p.m. in Room 260 of the City County
Building, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.

Board Members Present:

Chairman, John Williams, Dr. Jacqueline Greenwood,
Mr. Joe Wynns, Mr. Josh Bowling and Dr. Michael
Twyman

Staff Present:

Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary
Suzanne Martin, Assistant Board Secretary
Don Colvin, Deputy Director
LeAnnette Pierce, Assistant Corporation Counsel

Chairman’s Announcements
Chairman Williams greeted everyone to the February 28th Parks Board and stated that
he apprected everyone and he has a couple of announcements and really the main one
is that we are going through the Greenways Master Planning process and we have
foure more meetings that is still slated to happen actually in the next four weeks, no
actually the next two weeks. Tonight there is one going to be in Warren Township and
the meeting starts at 6:00 p.m. and it is going to be at the Warren Township Ed and
Community Center and Tuesday night this coming week and Wednesday night and
Thursday night they are going to be in Decatur Township, Perry Township, and Franklin
Township respectively so if you can get a chance, especially those of you who are out
there in the listening audience if you get a chance to step out and come to the meetings
we would love to hear what you say about the Indianapolis Greenways and help us
develop this master plan for our Greenways system. The other thing that he wants to
say real briefly is our next Parks Board meeting will be held offsite, so, I think we are
going to be agoing to Perry Park Ice Rink and at this point that is wh at it looks like we
are going to be. We have some work that was done throught a day of service and we
want to showcase all the hard work that took place there and let the citizens know what
had happened there a couple of months ago. Again, and also as Louvenia just made
me aware again the date for next month;s meeting has been changed and moved up a
week to the 21st of March and so we will make sure that all the public notifications is out
on that. At this time Board members you have the minutes before you and if he could
intertain a motion.
Approval of Minutes –

January 24, 2013

A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Dr. Twyman, and unanimously
passed to approve the minutes of January 24, 2013.

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Two
1. Agenda Item Resolution #7, 2013 –Approval by the Board of Parks and
Recreation of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the acceptance of
the intergovernmental transfer of real estate (a part of ravenswood
Boulevard) from the Department of Public Works to the Department of
Parks and Recreation of the City of Indianapolis, Indiana.
Chairman Williams greeted Don Colvin and Paul Smith. Don stated that what he has
before the Board today is something that has been in the works for quite a long time at
Ravenswood Overlook and we (Parks) has been managing this property for several
years and making it available to the public to access the White River. The property is
originally owned and is still owned by the Department of Public Works and it was part of
the old street right of way and we had kind of a use agreement with our sister agency
over those number of years. It really has been so well received by the community and it
has been requested by the community that it should come into the Parks Department’s
ownership for future care and long term perputuity and the Department of Public Works
has inter-governmentally transferred and they passed a resolution on their side to
transfer this property over to the Department of Parks and Recreation and what we
have here before you today is a similar resolution as the Department of Public Works for
the Parks Board approval to accept this property within our land acquisition. Chairman
Williams asked the Board members if there were any questions. There were none.
A motion was duly made by, seconded by Dr. Greenwood, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item Resolution #7, 2013.
2. Agenda Item #8, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis, Indiana for the Department of Parks
and Recreation ‘s authorization for Do INdiana Off-road, LLC (DINO’s)
representatives to stay overnight at Town Run Trail during a special event
on April 26, 2013.
Dee Dickerson greeted the Board and Director Williams welcomed Dee and her guest
as she introduced herself to the Board and she mentioned that the Board actually has
three (3) agenda items before them and basically they are requesting the same from the
Board but at different park locations and different dates and times. Dee stated that she
is pleased to have with here a representative from DINO, Kurt Schneider. Dee
mentioned that she has had the pleasure of working with DINO for the last 12 years on
their various events that they have hosted at Indy Parks. Dee stated tht she is going
ahead and let Kurt tell you a little bit about DINO of who they are and what they do.
Kurt greeted the Board and introduced himself as an attorney here in Indiana and he is
here to represent DINO and appreciated the Board’s time to hear their request. DINO is
a small LLC based in Indiana and basically what they do is put on running, bicycling
triathelon adventure races through the state usually at city parks or at state parks and
have been doing this for about 12 years and basically host about 20 events a year
which are mostely trial runs and mountain biking events. Events usually have
somewhere between 200 to 500 people who are always on the trails and never on the

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Three

roads. They have been very successful and he would say that on the mountain biking
area they are by far the leading entity within the state since there are not that many
entities that do mountain biking events. There are all kinds of entities that do running
events but they specialize in trails and there are a few other entities that do it as well but
he thinks their representation is spectacular. They enjoy working with Indy Parks
because they believe that DINO brings Indy Parks a lot of new customers and a lot of
repeat customers and they look forward to a long and prosperous relationship and he is
here to answer any questions the Board may have and as far as he knows they have
never had any issues whatsoever with having events at Indy Parks’s locations and he is
basically here to answer any questions that the Board may have at this time.
Dr. Greenwood asked what is the age group that will be staying there. Kurt answered
basically six to eighty-five. Really anyone that runs, but generally speaking they are
looking at about 18 to forty year olds. His children do it. There are not a lot of kids out
there but there are kids and there are older people as well. Chairman Williams asked
Dr. Greenwood to rephrase that question because if he heard her correctly you asked
about the age group of the folks that will be staying overnight at the facility? Kurt
appoligized and answered all adults. Chairman Williams asked how many adults will be
staying overnight. Kurt anwered 2 to 4 and one of the things that he does want to make
the distinction and he doesn’t really know the legislative intent, but his intuition is that
these ordinances were not totally designed for what they are asking for. They are not
asking to be like the Boy Scouts camp out and have their attendee’s camp out at the
park. What they are asking for is permission to have a couple staff members be able to
stay overnight to prepare and secure the trails for the upcoming events prior to the
attendees arrival which allows them to put on a safer, better event. All of their events
are on the trails and trails are a little more dicey than a road event because trails can
easily fluxuate from side to side and think about just how long it takes to walk a fifteen
mile trail and if someone just tears down a piece of tape, your runners are going off to
the left instead of going to the right and it is a little bit harder to set up. Also the
conditions can change, it could rain over night and they may have to all of a sudden
change one of the trails and so the set-up time is actually far greater than it would be on
a traditional road race because the roads are not going to change, you really just puts
some cones out and redirect the racers and so the set up is a lot different. Their
request is just to have permission to be able to prepare the park trails and track prior to
the races and make those adjustments prior to the race event beginning, again for the
safety of the participants and for the customer service of their people attending these
events. Their events start at 9:00 a.m. and runners start showing up roughly around an
hour or an hour and half and believe it or not, they actually have runners who want to
run the course before the event. So, when people start running about an hour or hour
and half before the event, they are in what he calls “customer service mode” and they
do not want to be setting up at that point, we want to be answer whatever questions
they have which could be “where is the restroom” to is it going to be hilly or whatever.
Their goal is to be there again for the safety and customer service of their people. If
they could figure out a way where they do not have to be there at night they would
prefer that.

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Four

Mr. Wynns stated that just as a point of clarification, it is kind of difficult to set up at 3:00
to 4:00 in the morning because it is pitch black. You basically need someone there for
security reasons from the time the event starts to the next day, three to four people?
This is what you are asking? Because you cannot set anyting up at 1- 4 in the morning.
Kurt replied that to be clear their staff usually arrive around noon or early afternoon the
day before the event and security is probably the main reason but they do have to setup
and re-set up pretty early, not 3:00 in the morning. Mr. Wynns stated that his point is
that you probably don’t need to be there as far as people coming in but as more security
to protect your equipment and make sure you are ready to go when people start
showing up at 4:30 in the morning. Mr. Wynns stated that he just needed to be clear
because we got off on trails and all that and kinda, so you need 3 or 4 people to be
there for security to protect the stuff and be ready to go at 6:00 in the morning. Kurt
answered yes. Dee mentioned that they set up their cones, their timing equipment etc.
so they are ready to go.
Dr. Twyman asked who is securing the representatives safety, this is a question to the
Parks Department and one, and there be any park staff on call, on site? Chairman
Williams answered Dr. Twyman stating “no” we will not have any Indy Parks staff on site
or on call. Mr. Wynns asked if the representatives would be staying in the facility or just
in the park. Kurt answered that they will be staying in a very tiny camper. Dee added
that typically what we have done in years past is Indy Parks gives them the
permissions, written and notify the rangers and notify the IMPD division that may be in
those areas that we have authorized the organization to stay in the park and they have
a letter on site for that. Of course, if this is passed by the Board they will have the
resolution that states that the Parks Board has given them permission to stay on site as
well. Mr. Wynns asked if this was the Marion County Sheriff’s district at Southeastway
Park. Dee answered yes.
Dr. Twyman stated that as usual when he asks a liability question LeAnnette is there
anything that the Parks Department needs to do in order to make certain that in the
case that perhaps something were to happen when there is no staff there and we have
allowed people to be in the park, although authorized, is there anything we could do to
mitigate any potential liability on the part of the Parks Department? LeAnnette
answered that it is probably worth having a release from them saying that they are
staying at their own risk and that they are assuming a liability for anything that would
happen to them. Because they are staying at their own risk and they have insurance for
their event but they are going to have to make sure that their insurance is going to cover
their equipment for the overnight portion of the event and they can draft releases for
these events. Dee also added they do sign the special use agreement which has this
waiver of liability information on it and they also sign a rental contract because basically
they are renting our premises and then the insurance that we have on file for DINO runs
for the whole year. Typically it will run from say November 2012 through November
2013 and staff makes sure that this is up to date at all time.
Dr. Greenwood reiterated that we have had this in the past. Dee answered yes. It is a
litte bit of a conundrum because interpretation gets in there and we have to rely on our

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Five

attorney and the director to lead in the right direction and in years past they were using
the ordinance as far as park hours and extending park hours except we were extending
them 24 hours and so that ordinance indicated that we were able to get permission from
the Director for the over night stay and it didn’t have to be approved by the Board but
this time around we are indicating that we are going to have to use the ordinance for
sleeping in the parks instead and the only body of government that can give that
approval is our Parks Board. Mr. Wynns stated that there were occasions where we
have done it in the past for carnivals where the carnival staff would camp overnight
when there used to be carnivals in parks so we have done this before. He just wanted
to make sure he was clear that we were not going to have the public overnight Mr.
Wynns stated that this area is a big area to be out there by yourselves. Kurt responded
that State parks are a lot bigger. He stated that they do this for every event that they
host and have been doing it for 12 years. Chairman Williams asked how many people
they are anticipating in the three areas we are talking about. Kurt replied that there
ranges from 250 to 500 people and often times it is determined by weather and the
worst weather the smaller the crowd. Chairman Williams stated that it is an opportunity
for us from the Parks perspective to bring some folks who may not otherwise use the
park to see that they can come and utilize the trail system that we have there or maybe
they will find some other amenities that we have at the park that is enteresting to them
and will come back. Kurt added that as far as the participants it is not uncommon for
people to bring their spouses and children to watch or play in the park at the same time
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. Dr.
Greenwood stated that she started the questions so she is ready to make the motion.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and
unanimously passed to approve Agenda Item #8, 2013.
Chairman Williams explained again to the Board that it was thought to be covering all
three of these locations by the Board voting on the first site approval. Board secretary
explained that they should vote on each board item individually and the Board did so.
and voted on the other two locations.
3. Agenda Item #9, 2013 – Approval of the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the Department of Parks and
Recreation’s authorization for Do INdiana Off-road, LLC (DINO)
representatives to stay overnight at Southwestway Park during a special
event on August 23, 2013.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by, Dr.Greenwood and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #9, 2013.
4. Agenda Item # 10, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the Department of Parks and
Recreation’s authorization for Do INdiana Off-road, LLC (DINO)
representatives to stay overnight at Eagle Creek Park during a special
event on March 8, 2013.

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Six

A motion was duly made by Dr. Twyman, seconded by Dr. Greenwood, and
unanimously passed to approve Agenda Item #10, 2013.
5. Agenda Item #11, 2013 –Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the adoption of the Resource
Development Division of the Department of Parks and Recreation’s Bel-Aire
Park Master Plan for 2013.
Director Williams greeted Ben Jackson, Park Planner for Indy Parks and Mr. Jackson
greeted the Board and thanked them stating that this is the 2013 Bel-Aire Park Master
Plan just a little bit of history to tell you how we got to this point. Ben pointed to the
overhead screen depicting the right hand outline stating that this is the current Bel-Aire
Park which in 2002 Martin Merrietta deeded over to the City for the purpose of
becoming a park and in 2011this Board approved the pursuing of a proposal from
Southside Landfill to purchase a piece of land and trade it to Indy Parks for the land
where the existing Bel-Aire Park was on. Part of that process was the development by
Indy Parks of a commitment to do a full Master Plan for the park. The original Bel Aire
Park had a site plan but not a full master plan. On September 26, 2012 they held their
first public meeting and the gathered information and met with the public, gathered
information about what they wanted to see in the park and explained the process and
how we got to that point. They came back to their office to develop the plan, took it
back out to the public on November 27, 2012 for the second master plan public
meeting. The presented the plan. Ben pointed to the overhead depicting some of the
pictures of events held at the existing Bel-Aire Park. It is a well loved park and they
hold a couple of music events every year including a gosple fest, lots of picnic events
and they also host a classic car show there. Ben spoke about the next pictures on the
overhead which depicts the piece of land tht the proposal is to move a piece of land to
relocate Bel-Aire Park to.and it actually is located at 2901 Mooresville Road and it is a
little over 14 acres and is almost exactly the same size as the existing Bel Aire Park
location and it is a lot flatter and will be much easier from a developmental point of view
to put features on the land. Ben discribed the next slide to the Board which is a slide of
the proposed plan and it incorporates all of the amenities from the previous Bel Aire
Park and also calls out for new amenities to be added. The ball fields, multi-purpose
fields, the trail, moving the playground equipment and this plan proposes that we
actually supplement that with more playground equipment, more recent pieces. Thre is
a former restaurant building on the north corner of the site, and there are photos of this
restaurant in the plan. They went out and looked at the building and it seems to be in
decent enough condition that we can repair and modify it for use as a community center
meeting room and intergrate some restrooms for the use of park patrons. There is an
existing parking lot on the site that we can take advantage of as well as adding a
sprayground, a half court 5 to 12 year old basketball court and a full adult basketball
court. Lastly as you look at this Master Plan Layout on the overhead on the southwest
corner it looks like a little dark chip, which will be a performance shelter similar to the
one that they put in at Watkins Park with electrical for use by the community for music
events. Presently they have to rent a big stage and bring it in and this would be a much
more effective facility for them. This pretty much rapps up his presentation of the

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Seven

master plan to the Board. Chairman Williams asked the Board if they have any
questions. Mr. Wynns stated that you have 80 car parking area here and you have
these sports fields here, and if he could remember, there was a big issue down there
with sports fields parking, neighborhood parking issues and they were upset about the
parking situation and these sports fields and he is assuming there will be 2 soccer
complexs and his question is that the 80 parking spaces you have in this design and
you will have soccer and all this other stuff, is that issue going to be resolved? He
remembers there were some issues that when they had soccer going on there and the
patrons wanted to use the park there were not enough parking areas on the old site. He
is stating that with the new design you are showing 80 spaces, you have soccer fields,
band, you have a lot of stuff going on down here, is this parking going to accommodate
that where you, the director or Don will be getting these calls about we have people
parking all over their neighborhood and they can’t get to the park. Is the community
comfortable with these sport fields in here and soccer and parking and bands and their
events and it is going to be a scheduling nightmare for somebody but he is just saying
that 80 spots with all of this activity, could you tell me a little bit about the comfort zone
of that. Ben stated, yes, and that question did actually come up at the public meeting
about the conflicts with programmed soccer events. Ben pointed to the overhead
screen stating that these shapes showing as the multipurse fields for the purpose of this
plan they are place holders and staff would not necessarily be calling for a striped field
with official leage play without further consultation with the community and what would
work. Mr. Wynns asked if these are practice fields, not game fields or tournament
fields? Ben answered yes, practice and informal usage is what he believes what their
intent was. Don Colvin stated that he will add a little more flavor to what Ben stated.
There are additional 42 parking spaces right along Mooresville Road if you look at the
plan there is parolle parking along the street and this will help both when you are having
a concert series in the park or if they were hosting some game play. There is a little
different perspective about the original Bel Aire Park, since the neighborhood really
brought this park to Indy Parks they have felt there is more personal ownership in it and
maybe they were not as visionary about how the general public should have acces to all
of the park. Mr. Colvin was very clear that when this moved to the top of the property
that this park is open to all members of our community. Obviously, two fields is not
enough to run a sports league. But, if there was an opportunity to have an event here,
we would be able to accommodate an event here, and this would be a park for all the
community members, not just the little localized neighborhood and he has been pretty
clear about that at this time. Mr. Wynns stated o.k, they felt like they owned it and they
would lobby for it and it was their park and he just wanted to make sure it was
understood. Don stated that he thinks that how Ben has layed out the parking here and
there is also some parrelle parking along Tibbs Avenue as well along the park’s
property line he picks up another dozen or so parking spaces that we can dispurse
some as use. A couple other things that we should al be aware of as a Board, is that
we will be coming back to the Board. The property has not been transferred yet, so we
the City, Indy Parks still own’s Bel Aire Park and this property that the 2013 Master Plan
that is done on is still owned by Southside Landfill and Paul Smith and Don met with
representatives from Southside Landfill to fullfill their commitment to the Board about
matching it up, like for like, and they are on board to do that and they are doing some

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Eight

survey work on the property now and we will be bringing back the deed for the Board to
accept the land transfer before we start investment. This was also one of the sites that
Lilly Grant came through the Parks Foundation funding. Southside Landfill still will
match up everything over here and put in the trail, the fields, the playground but the Lilly
dollars will come in and add the water spraypark, enhance the playground further and
there are some shelter opportunities.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. Dr.
Twyman asked what size is the meeting room. Mr. Colvin replied that it is about the
size of a Hardees. The last use of the building was for a Hardees so the building is
totally gutted which is to Indy Park’s benefit actually because all the interior walls are
exposed so when they go in to make their public restrooms, they can just tie it right into
the utility features and then they just can finish the interior of the building and he had
Dave and Danny our construction guys for Indy Parks, and Ben and Paul Smith
attended the on site meeting and so it is around 1000 to 2000 square feet, it is not huge
but it is a typical old fashioned Hardees where you had the restaurant piece behind and
you had the seating area in front and previously was a Burger Chef and then became a
Hardees and it has been empty for probably 10 years because he remembers it was
empty back when he was doing the original site plan for the current Bel Aire Park. Don
stated that he is anticipating that it will be at least as much space as what we have at
Juan Soleman, where you can have maybe a community meeting area of maybe 25-30
folks in comfortably because we need to set aside a little storage area for tables and
such because it also could be rented for parties as well as community functions or run in
Summer Lunch programs out of there, one of Indy Parks summer programs.
Dr. Tywman stated that this is the only facility that will have the restroom accomodations
is that correct. Mr. Colvin aswered yes. This is correct there will be one restroom facility
and part of the Lilly grant is to put in a comfort station and those dollars may assist us in
preparing this particular building as a public restroom. Mr. Wynns asked if there was
any thought for port-o-let design? Mr. Wynns stated that a lot of cities are putting in
nice little port-o-lets throughout their parks now. Is something like this feasible? Don
replied that he would like to think that this building would provide the necessary public
restroom accomodations and they will open up in the Spring , they will be flush toilets,
and Indy Parks has a janitorial service contractor like we do all of our other comfort
stations so idealy, unless there was a special event where they exceeded this capacity,
then they would bring in the port-o-lets just for that event and take them out afterwards.
This would be a temporary fixture. A lot of times our fenced-in enclosures for our porto-lets seem to be targets for vanalizim and graffiti tagging so if we can avoid some
permanent structures for those and have the permanent restrooms, that would be our
preference.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. There were
none.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Dr. Twyman, and
unanimously passed to approve Agenda Item #11, 2013.

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Nine
6. Agenda Item #12, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the award of bid from Ellis
Mechanical and Electrical in the amount of $514,000.00 for the 2013
Fountain Renovation of Garfield Park sunken Gardens.
Mr. Teachout greeted the Board and apologized for his voice being wraspy and that he
has a little bit of a cold and it sounds a lot worse than it is and he is feeling great but the
voice doesn’t sound good. This item he is presenting is the award of the bid for putting
the pumps and motors into the sunken garden fountains pits. They are purchasing the
actual pumps off of US Communities and also get a better price for doing this and also
get them in a little quicker than if the contractor was doing the work and time is of the
essence for this project. They have already demoed out everyghing that was inside
those and this is what you see on the overhead screen and all you see is just the pipes
so that we have something to attach these new pumps and motors to. This item before
you is to actually install the stuff that they are in the process of purchasing for Garfield
Sunken Gardens. Dave stated that he invited Andy Ellis to attend this meeting today
and he had an emergency OSHA inspection and because we all know what kinda
happens with these inspections, he wasn’t able to make this meeting today because of
the last minute inspection on their part. Mr. Wynns stated that he has just one quick
question. How have you delt with the footing of the pits? David answered that they are
trying to make sure that they use either water rated pumps motors or ones that can get
wet. He doesn’t believe that they are submersable pumps. What they have also done
is made sure that they have a better drain system installed so if water does make its
way in they are repairing the water line that comes in so that it is not pvc any longer it is
going to be a copper pipe so they do not have to worry about things busting. They are
thinking that if a pipe busts that takes care of the fountain pumps, because of the size of
the line that is leaving this pit now and no more water is in these pits, they should be
able to get it out before there is any damage at all and by using the rated motors that
they are trying to use with everything else, they think that they are going to be in very
good shape. Mr. Wynns also asked if they moved all of the electrical out of the pit?
David answered yes, as much as would allow by the codes. There are some electrical
items that have to be in there by the code and they removed everything out that they
could. Mr. Colvin stated that the one thing that he should add to this is that is
significantly different from the last time is that they had a little residential sump pump
that just pumped the water up to the grass lawn and with this drain it is being tied into
the sanitary sewer system and as David mentioned they will be able to remove that
water in a high volume capacity into the drainage system and get it totally off site.
David stated that it is going to be a forced main sewer. Mr. Colvin also stated that
another key component is worth noting is that the previous motors that were in here
were manufactured by different manufactuers. What they did this time because they
had the opportunity to use US Communities, it is one manufacturer who has produced
all of these pumps and they are all tested at the factory before they are delivered so
when they arrive, they arrive on a pallet and they literally get dropped in and attached to
these various valves so in the future if one pump fails, they can order the same pump
again from US Communities and it will come in on a rack, drop it in and take the old one
off and attach the new. They did not have this opportunity in the last design that they

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Ten

delbt with. The main control panels will be up near the greenhouse building where the
main circuit boards are. What is being put inside the pit are little cylinoids that will
literally open the valves and close the valves, which is no different than what you would
have with an irrigation system. David added that as part of the code requirement there
must be a mode of disconnect and they are trying to keep everything in the pit of
electrical nature to a minimum. Mr. Colvin stated that another point of clarification with
the new design opens up the pit completely and now when a maintenance technition
has to go down and service these pumps the area has been greatly simplified with
these compacted motors as well as they have added a new a new pit for the filtration
system, so none of the chemicals are in the pit. It is so important for the preventive
maintenance side making it physically easier for the technician to get in there and
change out the filters or replace anything that needs replacing . In the chemical
component is osmosis and it is in its own pit just for the filtration of it. Dr. Twyman
asked David if this is approved, what is the timeline for having water spewing out of
those fountains? David answered that they are shooting for Memorial Day 2013.
David clarified that that is the date that they are really hoping for fountain operation.
David also stated that with everything else, weather, and all the other items, since this is
an outdoor project is shoot for that date and that is what is stated in the contract for this
to take place, with that being said, it could rain every day that they are doing this work
and at that point, it is not only the rain that is happening that day, but subsequently
every day after the wait for drying out has to take place before they can do more side
work so that is the date that they are shooting for and this is the only thing he can tell
for sure is that they are shooting for that date.
Mr. Colvin added that again to excelerate this schedule, last year they awarded the
repair of the fountain basins so there is another contractor who is actually sealing the
cracks in the basins and painting that separately this project also replaces all the old
lights in each one of the basins to new LED lighting which has a much longer life cycle
and also as far as utilities a very conservative on energy as well. Chairman Williams
asked if there were any other questions from the Board members. There were not.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Bowman, seconded by Dr. Greenwood, and
unanimously passed to approve Agenda Item #12, 2013.
7. Agenda Item #13, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for Amendment #2, amending the
Professional Services Agreement for design and construction documents
for Chuck Klein Site and Building Renovation to Odle McGuire Shook in the
lump sum amount of $25,200.00.
David Teachout stated that the Chuck Klein project is on the street right now for bidding.
What this item does is it gives their designers the money then to do submittal reviews
and to do some periodic site inspections, they take care of the majority of these
themselves but they have progress meetings and this is job that is going to take pretty
close to a year to complete so they are going to have a progress meeting and attending
the progress meetings and all the submittals, the spec book on this project is about 3

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Eleven

inches thick and there is a lot of things that they have to look at and approve in order to
get this project done and this is what this item is for, to amend the existing contract to
extend time so that they can get this project completed by July of 2014.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any questions from the Board. There were
none.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Twyman, seconded by Mr. Wynns, and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #13, 2013.
8. Agenda Item #14, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for Justification of a Professional
Services Agreement with Access Valuation, LLC for work associated with
appraisals of land involved in the 6F conversion at Eagle Creek Park in the
amount of $28,500.00.
Paul Smith came to present this item and mentioned that he believed the agenda stated
that David Teachout was supposed to be the one presenting this item, and Dave tells
you that it is not painfull for him, whatever he’s got, but it is painful outthere listening to h
him, he can tell you that. Paul wants to thank David. David actually put this contract
together so he wants to thank him for doing that but since it was an appraisal contract
that he wrote it up for he felt that it might be a little better for Paul to present this item to
the Board. Paul stated that this really a small piece of what is a huge project having to
do with the pistal range out at Eagle Creek Park and he is not prepared today to talk to
you about the project as a whole, but what he would like to do today is limit the
discussion to attempt to purswade the Board to approve this appraisal contract that you
have in front of you. They are going to have to appraisals done on a 50 acre tract at
Eagle Creek where the Pistal Range currently is located and they also need to in
conjunction with this 6F Conversion that is referenced here they are going to have to
have appraisals done on substitute property where at the end of the day is going to
have to have substance value equal to or greater than the 50 acres that we have at
Eagle Creek. We don’t really know at this point, we know what we have at Eagle Creek
what has to be appraised there but what we don’t know is how many different
properties, how many acres we are going to have appraised to be able to match up
exceed the value of those acres at Eagle Creek, so this is a not-to-exceed contract of
$28,500.00. Paul stated that he can’t tell you if it is going to cost any where near that,
maybe less than that by a long shot we just won’t know until they get into this. They do
know one thing that they can’t take that first step without the Parks Board approval.
Nick was asked to be here today and Paul did not get a phone call from him, and Paul is
sure that something must have come up because he indicated to Paul that he was
going to be here today and he will appologise on his behalf for him not being here today
and the timing is critical on this as well and they would like to go ahead and get started
on this and with the Board’s permission they can do this. Paul askd Don Colvin if he
wanted to add any more color to this or not in terms of background. He tried to keep it
limited but you may want to add something more. Don stated that he thinks the
question that the Board members may have is why are we even doing this and that

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Twelve

probably will be the big question and the easiest way to answer that is there is a
program called Land/Water Conservation Funds that is operated by the National Parks
Service and administered by the State of Indiana and we had used years ago, federal
dollars, National Park dollars to construct the pistal range. Whenyou use these
land/water conservation funds the facilities you build have to be open to the public
greater than 51 percent of the time, they prefer it to be 90 percent of the time, but at a
bare minimum, 51 percent of the time, well, a lot of things have changed over the years
with 9 eleven and the amount of training that our Department of Public Safety has to go
through to be ready to protect us in our communities. The use at the facility has been
limited to about 10 hours a week for public access so this puts us in violation of this
federal program that we use these dollars for and in order to put us back in good
standing with the National Park Service and the State, we need to take this covenant off
the land and place it on equivilent land somewhere in our system. Now the Board has
been very good to him over the years and Paul and a lot of these properties that we
have been bringing to the Board to receive the Board has allowed them to place these
properties at our Indianapolis Parks Foundation and they are presently holding several
of these properties that will be the equivilant properties that the appraiser looks at to
replace this covenant on the Eagle Creek piece and once they do and if they are
accepted by not only the State first, but then the National Park Service, they then will
come back to the Board and let the Board fully accept them back as our inventory and
the foundation will give them back to us as equivelant. We will not loose the land out
here at Eagle Creek Park. It will still be Indy Parks land, he just will not have this deed
restriction on the property, it will be lifted up and placed on these other properties that
are equivilant for outdoor recreation use.
Mr. Wynns asked where is the funding coming from to purchase these properties. Don
explained that as he mentioned earlier, that was where the Board has been so
generous over the years, he has been planning this for a long time Mr. Wynns and you
even helped over the years when you were Director of Indy Parks. Don stated that he
knew they had this issue evolving and so every time a developer came and gave us a
property, he came before the Board and asked his permission and asked Director
Williams permission and Cindy Porteous at the time at the Parks Foundation’s
permission to place these properties over at the Parks Foundation so these are the
properties that will cost this Board nothing to receive these properties which were gifts
and were just placed on hold by the Parks Foundation and if they match up as equivilant
and approved these properties will be given back to us free of charge. The
department’s cost is in the 6F Conversion, these dollars here today and then we hired
Green 3 last year who is running the other part of this project, actually preparing the
legal documents for the National Parks Seervice, so there are two contracts, if you
would, that is helping us bring this project together. Mr. Wynns stated that he knows
that Don and Paul are good land people and he asked if Don believes what property is
being held is going to be equal? Don answered. Yes. He does, he really does. He
even believes that the one they were looking at, Wildwood Park, which was given to us
down off of Southeastern Avenue, which is part of a Lilly Grant and will be a full park
when it is completed in less than probably 3 years, it will have playgrounds and parking
lots and shelters, and water sprayground. He is also looking at this new Bel Aire Park

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Thirteen

property, technically that could be given to the Parks Foundation by Southside Landfill,
and then passed back to the Parks Department, if it was approved and just with these 2
pieces of property alone potentially could meet this requirement. If not, we potentially
have 4 to 5 others to be looked at. Forest Manor is another one where we have around
14 acres of all woodland that goes right up to Forest Manor the baseball diamonds
Josh. We also have a couple of other properties as well.to help us with this. Paul
stated that he and Don have a couple of surprises up their sleeves that they can’t share
with the Board today and we like to save those for Dr. Greenwood because she loves
when they come before her with land gifts. Paul stated that we have more than enough
to take care of this and we just want to be very judicious with what we put out there in
terms of either. If they come back to us and say that they need more, we have more.
Dr. Greenwood stated that she knows Paul is going to bring it to them. Paul stated that
he thinks of Dr. Greenwood every time we have a gift of property as well. Mr. Wynns
stated that he knows you don’t have a lot of public out there using the pistal range but
once you move this from public use, there will be some push back on it only because
one person is going to say they want to shoot and now they can’t use that range, how
are you planning on addressing these concerns? Don stated that they will still have 10
hours of public use there. Paul stated that that won’t change. We have a contract with
a professional arms person that oversees this use and supervises and gives training
classes and the department anticipates this to continue. They are not being asked by
Public Safety to leave the premises. Our problem is not the public use. The problem is
there is not enough public use. It will not go from whatever it is to zero. It will stay the
same as it is right now, is what the department is anticipating. These are available
times when Public Safety is not using the range. We anticipate this actually to stay the
same or even increase because there is quite a demand to practice at that range. Dr.
Twyman stated that this is probably more true recently. Don agreed with Dr. Twyman
that defininately more recently.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. There were
not.
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and
unanimously passed to approve Agenda Item #14, 2013.
9. Agenda Item #15, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the fee proposal from
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING, Inc. for the design and construction
drawings for stablizing Bean Creek bank north of the Burello Center at
Garfield Park in the amount of $66,100.00.
David Teachcout stated that this item is for design services for fixing the bank shown on
the overhead and also further more upstream where we have some more errosion
problems where the bridge is lcoated. David stated that they are watching the tree that
is on the left hand side, the bank was getting a little bit closer and closer and they
thought they would have some additional time but that happended this last winter and
rather than loose the trail then subsequently the parking lot over at the Burello Center

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Fourteen

they decided that they better do something to stabilize this area. DPW was gracious
enough to do some initial stabilization so that we don’t have to worry about errosion but
it is not something that we want maintain over the next bunch of years, so what they
have done is talk to Infrastructure and Natalie is here and Dustin is back there as well in
the audience if you want to talk to him. David stated that to do a design and what is
kinda unique about this is and Natalie can probably talk to you about it a little bit more is
rather than just use a standard type of design for stablizing this they are looking at using
logs to stabilize this bank and David turned the floor over to Natalie. Natalie stated that
the method that the are actually proposing for this is called the Toe Wood Sod Mat
Stabilization so it is more of a natural method rather than using a structural stablization
for the toe which makes it a little more permit friendly,usually the State agencies tend to
go for this a lot more and the idea would be that they would bench out part of the stream
and create the toe stabilization by using logs of different sizes and drive them into the
bank to create the toe stabilization and create a habitate where it could silt up and
slowly become part of the bank itself and above that there would be a sod mat that
would have native vegitation and then eventually as the whole bank starts to veggitate it
takes the stream itself back to its pre-erroded conditions.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any questions from the Board. Dr. Twyman
asked if Infrastructure Engineering was a WBE. Natalie stated that they are an MBE.
David Teachout stated that they have done some other work with us previously. They
are who we used for the Coffin Bank stabilization as well and they have done some
work for us previously. Don Colvin stated that he appoligizes for how much he has to
say today but he must have had too much coffee to drink. Dr. Twyman stated that it has
all been good things so go right ahead. Don stated that this toe of wood technique is
that we are using is going to be the first example of this usage in the State of Indiana.
Minnisota and out west it has been used extensively and they have been using it on
large rivers like our White River to stabilize these embankments and because this is
unique, and they think it is going to be, because they are working with the Center for
Environmental Sciences over at the State, primarily Mr. Bob Barr who has helped them
with Pleasant Run, they think they can seek other dollars and he is hopefully he will not
have to come back to the Board for the construction side of it and that the Soil Water
Conservation folks at the State are very interested with this as maybe a demonstration
project and also we think that the Department of Public Works may have a lot of interest
in this because if this works as well as it has in Minnesota and other places, this could
stabilize a lot of the imbankments out at Eagle Creek where they have some errosion,
particularly on the penninsula and pluse we would receive folks coming into town to
observe this example within Indy Parks to take back with them. It is much better in
many ways because it us using the natural system instead of armoring it with concrete
or gabeon baskets and stones because that is just a short term fix. Many times the
energy in that stream hits off those hard surfaces and very much like a pool table or
billard the ball bounces off the rail to the other side and causes damage on the other
side. This techneque defuses all of that energy of the stream into this natural
imbankment. He is also working with our urban forester and we believe we can harvest
some of the ermerald ash trees that have died at Sahms Park and use some of those
same trees in a productive way as the deadment that goes into the embankment

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Fifteen

because you tip the trees over and you leave their root systems on and that becomes
that irregular pattern on the tree that allows everything to kind of bind up like a spider
web so we are going to use some of our own materials instead of just chipping it off we
are going to have them set asside some logs and use them on this particular project. It
is kind of exciting. He likes to think that Indy Parks is always on the cutting edge and
trying to be ennovative and we appreciate the support of the Board when they help us
be a visionary in these areas. Chairman Williams stated that it is a good sustainable
application. Don added, it is very sustainable. Chairman Williams asked if there were
any more questions from the Board members. There were none.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Bowman, seconded by Dr. Twyman, and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #15, 2013.
10. Agenda Item #16, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the acceptance of the fee proposal
from INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING, Inc. for the design and
construction drawings for the trail repair along Fall Creek in the amount of
$23,500.00.
David Teachout stated that while he was talking to INFRASTRUCTURE about the
problems we were having at Garfield, he said he has a bigger, safety problem over at
Fall Creek. When the creek rises, we have this errosion problem. David stated that
what they are going to do is get rid of the items that have created the errosion, except
the water, because that is going to stay anyway and re-work the trail so that it is a safer
area and we do not have to worry about the colvert riling up that area and washing out
the trail itself. Chairman Williams asked if there were any questions from the Board
members. There were none.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Dr. Greenwood, and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #16, 2013
11. Agenda Item #17, 2013 – Approval by the Board of Parks and Recreation of
the Consolidated City of Indianapolis for the acceptance of the fee proposal
from Edward George and Associates for the evaluation and programming
of exhisting HVAC automation controllers at Thatcher Park Family Center,
Indy Island, Perry Park Ice Rink and Municipal Gardens Family Center in
the amount of $34,600.00.
Jack Leich, President of Edward George and Associates greeted the Board. Mr.
Teachout interrupted Mr. George and stated that he needed to talk a little bit first. David
stated that George is also a graduate of Notre Dame and that this is as close as Notre
Dame and Michigan State gets sitting right here. David stated that what he has here is
a proposal to better utilize the existing control systems that we have right now. What
they plan to do is do some additional programming and do some additional work at each
one of these different areas to make them more energy efficient to use what we

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Sixteen

currently have in place. David passed the floor over to Jack to explain the specific plan
that they have. Mr. George stated that for about three years he has been working with
the Office of Sustainability as the Energy Manager on some energy improvement
projects and they have worked on a number of Indy Parks facilities with Johnson
Control through that project. As he was working on the project and worked closely with
Dave, Danny Swails and Mike Pennington he came to appreciate that a number of
systems were a little bit older and it had been a while since they had been
commissioned, or retro-commissioned so that they were confident that all of the points
were working and all of the sequence of operations were proper, the schedules were
right and matched up with the hours of the facilities and all. They spent about 80 hours
with an engineer in March and April of last year going through all of these facilities with
Mike Pennington on the computer and document all the different controllers and they
raised a number of questions about whether things were really working the way they
were supposed to or not and whether this piece of equipment was working correctly or
not and from that they developed a number of proposals of number of hours to go back
into certain facilities to in fact, do that work. To map and document all the control points
to do a programming that was necessary to get the system back into harmony with the
hours of operation and the temperatures needed in the facilities and then to document
all of this on the graffics that they look at. All of these facilities can be accessed
remotely on the computer to adjust schedules and this is a great benefit that we have
now and David pointed to the overhead screen pictures. Mr. George stated that they
are not confident that what they see is in fact working properly at the sites. They picked
the four largest facilities and energy consuming sites to start with and they will spend
about 12% of the annual energy expenditures there with the notion that they will get all
of that back before this year is over. Mr. George stated that their history as a company,
as an owners rep and working in this area, they have generated savings in the 20 to
40% range on this kind of activity, going back in and working with the systems and
getting them kind of up to scratch. Chairman Williams asked the Board of they had any
questions. There were none.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Bowman, seconded by Dr. Twyman, and unanimously
passed to approve Agenda Item #17, 2013.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Board of Parks and Recreation, Chairman
Williams made a motion to adjourn and seconded by Mr. Wynns and unanimously
passed to adjourn the meeting.

Board of Parks and Recreation
Minutes February 28, 2013
Page Seventeen

The next scheduled Board of Parks and Recreation meeting is Thursday March 21,
2013 and relocated to Perry Park, 451 Stop 11 Road, Indianapolis, Indiana 46227.
SUBMITTED:

______
Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary

APPROVED:

John W. Williams, Chairman
Board of Parks and Recreation

Date

