BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CONSOLIDATED CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
January 23, 2014
The meeting of the Board of Parks and Recreation was called to order by Chairman Williams,
Thursday, January 23, 2014, at 3:45 p.m. Room 260, City-County Building, 200 East Washington
Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.
Board Members Present:

Chairman, John Williams, Mr. Joe Wynns,
Josh Bowling and Dr. Jackie Greenwood

Staff Present:

Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary
Suzanne Martin, Assistant Board Secretary
Doug Kowalski, Deputy Corporation Counsel

Staff Absent:

Anne Valentine

Directors Announcements: Chairman Williams greeted the Board and the audiance and stated
that he stated that he doesn’t have a whole lot in the way of the Directors announcements but he did
want to say this, the other day we had one of our larger days of service in recognition of the Martin
Luther King Junior holilday and the Citizens Energy Group was so gracious to come and do a day of
service and really transform Thatcher Park. He just wants the listening public to know this and to say
thank you to Citizens Energy Group for their commitment to service to the City of Indianapolis and
being really what he would consider a great corporate citizen. Thanks again Citizens Energy for the
work that you do to help Indy Parks and thanks to the Parks Foundation and his staff for the work
that they do to help facilitate and finding the location and working with our Day of Service groups that
are out there as corporate partners to make sure that these things come off without a hitch and that
we entise them to want to continue to do this work for us and with us through that process. Again,
thank you Citizens and the Indy Parks Foundation and park staff members as well for the work that
you do on a day-to-day basis. For those of you that can see the overhead screen, we had a day of
service last year with Allsate for the Big Ten Championships and they did some work over at
Riverside Park and actually there is a mural and if you have a chance to go to Riverside Park you will
see a Big Ten mural where it depicts the sporting activities that we have over at Riverside. Football
in particular and the artist who commissioned that is a former Indy Parks employee so we thank all of
those who participated in that process for the work that they do. He stated that he thinks that this
tipifys what he has been saying for a long time and staff has heard him say this time and time again,
that we are not successful if we are not able to work with the community and do the things that we
need to do to entise those corporate partners as well as individuals to come into our park system and
work with us to provide for a really high class park system that we think that all residents will be
proud of and proud to come and partronize our establishment and for all of you who do work with us
in partnership, he really apprecites the work that you do and stand by because in 2014 he thinks we
have some great things that we are going to be able to do to showcase what great parks we have
here in Indianapolis.
Mr. Wynns asked if somebody is doing some work at Watkins Park. He heard on the radio that
some organization and he can't think of the name of, but it was a part of some broader celebration
and they had selected Watkins. Chairman Williams answered, yes as a matter of fact we are in the
process of working with a particular group to do some work over in that area of Watkins and
Riverside and talking to them about doing something like this. Chairman Williams stated that we did
have a MLK celebration at Watkins Park and we had some folks there like Governor Pence was
there to celebrate and they did some minor work while they were there. Chairman Williams stated
that they usually do that on an annual basis.

Chairman Williams asked if there were any other comments from the board members. If not, we
have the minutes of December 19, 2013 and he would entertain a motion.
Approval of Minutes: December 19, 2013
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood and seconded by Mr. Wynns, and unanimously passed
to approve the Minutes of December 19, 2013.
New Business
1. Agenda Item #3B, 2012 – The Resource Development Division is recommending that the
Board of Parks and Recreation of the Consolidated City of Indianapolis,Indiana accept
Amendment #2 to the original contract for additional time for the 2013 update of the
Greenways Master Plan by Taylor Siefker Williams Design Group to may 30, 2014.
Andre Denman greeted the Board members telling them good afternoon and thanked the Board
secretary. First he stated happy New Year he hasn’t seen them in a while. It is good to be here. Mr.
Wynns said to Mr. Denman that he looks good. Andre thanked Mr. Wynns. He stated that he hasn’t
thawed out yet and the reason for this amendment to the contract is basically to give more time for
Taylor Siefker and Williams, who is our consultant, time to finish up a few things because of the
weather and snowbalation or whatever it has been called they have not been able to meet some
meetings with operations to go over some recommendations for maintenance along greenways and
just a few little formalities and what you see on the overhead screen is basically the proposed
timeline for what is going to happen next they will be getting a draft to our Resource Development
team of the master plan they have been calling it the manifesto because every time they meet with
them it seems to be getting bigger and bigger. They will be reviewing that and he would like to tell
his wife on TV that they probably will not be having a Valentines Day celebration and as you can see
th
on the chart that is February 12 he is to read that and get it back to them to make their revisions
and then at the next Board meeting they plan to basically have the draft available for you but also for
the general public and in those next 30 to 60 days before April they plan to have a public meeting
and get reviews from them and then bring it to the Board for a presentation and then in another 30
days for the Board to review it and then they will ask the Board to approve it and then it will be final
and our next draft for the next decade or for however long before the next update. He has Ron
Taylor here from Taylor Siefker & Williams if there are any questions but that is basically why they
are asking for this adjustment of time for the contract.
Chairman Williams asked the Board if there were any questions. Mr. Wynns stated that he has just
one. The new trail along Fall Creek Parkway, is that included in this plan? The one that is being built
now coming down Central. It that a part of this plan? Andre answered that it is shown on this plan
and it was also originally in the previous master plan. That is why these master plans are important
because once funding is available they can go from scoping to construction document and those
plans have been sitting on the shelf for a very long time and he said those plans were actually done
in metrix and that tells you how long those plans have sat on the shelf. That was part of the last
master plan but you will see that dash line go into a solid line because now it is in construction mode.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board. There was not.
Chairman Williams entertained a motion then.
A motion was duly made by Mr. Wynns, seconded by Mr. Bowling, and unanimously passed to
approve Agenda Item #3B, 2012.
Chairman Williams stated that we are finished with all the official business today and we are pleased
to welcome the Friends of Holliday Park here today to talk about something that he knows they find

2

near and dear to their hearts and he has met with them on a few occasions and talked about the
project that they are undertaking and he is excited to see what is going to happen and so without
further adue would you please introduce yourselves.

Presentation – Friends of Holliday Park - Exhibit Hall and Ruins Revitalization Update
Lisa Hurst introduced herself stating that she is a member of the Friends of Holliday Park Board and
she is also co-chairman of The Capital Campaign for a Priceless Asset in Need. Lisa said hi to
Mr.Wynns telling him it was good to see him again. Lisa stated that also with her today is her cochair CeCe Koonz who also sits on the Board and the president of the Friends Casey Crownen, Neil
Roach, their ruins chair, Adam Barnes, the manager of Holliday Park, Ken Remenschneider from
Remenschneider Associates and Brandon, Craig, Tom and Bill Fansler from Smock Fansler. They
are here today basically to thank the Board for their previous endorsement of their campaign projects
and to update the Board on their progress. They have presented to the Board twice now she thinks
once in April of 2011 and again in June of 2012. As many of you know, the Friends of Holliday Park
is an independent charitable organization committed to preserving the park. They work closely with
Indy Parks to build support and maintain many aspects of Holliday Park including the playgrounds
the rock garden, trails ecucational programming, summer concerts series just to name a few. The
Friends also raised $4.8 million dollars to construct and endow the nature center which opened to the
public in 2000. Currently they are now engaged in the public phase of a 3.2 million campaign to
revitalize the ruins and rennovate the exhibit hall in the nature center. This also includes an
endowment to maintain them in the future which resides at CICF. Since 2000 the Nature Center has
served over 700,000 program participants and visitors including 1,100 area school groups. Years of
high visitation have lead to wear and tear on the exhibit hall and most of the components are
reaching the end of their life expectancy. Their new plans are very exciting. The new exhibits will
improve the educational impact of the space and they will encourage people to go outside and
experience nature. Visitors when they come into the exhibit hall they will be emerced in the habitats
of Holliday Park. There will be discovery-based activities throughout the areas primarily geared for
kids that are preschool through second grade. Some of the highlights include the forest area with a
two-level tree that has activities that demonstrate the canipy and the forest floor. The white river area
which features a water table that they feel certain will be very popular as well as the unstructured play
area which will have toys, books, manipulatives, costumes and all their favorate things and the
wetlands area which features a table where children can memic the sounds that the animals make in
the wetlands. Taylor Studio has been collaborating with their project team on the design and they
recently signed a contract to move forward with them. If their entire fund rising goes well the new
exhibits will be installed by January of 2015 and Lilly Endowment is the lead sponsor for this area.
Adam Barnes is here if you have further questions during their questions and answer section and he
can answer those for you. On to the ruins. The ruins today continue to deteriate behind a chain-link
fence and they are completely inexcessable to the public. This beloved icon of Holliday Park is right
now dangerous, unusable and sets a tone of neglect that adversly affects the park. The new design
by Nine Bark, Eric Fulfort and Ann Reed re-establishes the ruins as open, safe and in inviting place
for the public to go, use and enjoy and truly taking a back to the centerpiece of the park. The
revitalized ruins also has the potential to provide a revenue stream for the park through rental
facilities for special events such as weddings, parties, community festivals, concerts and they see a
lot of great things happening in Holloday Park. Fund raising for this campaign started in the fall of
2011 and they quitely about 60% of their goal during that time and they went public last June and
John Williams was there the night that they launched their public campaign. They are very happy to
report that they have only $450,000 left to raise, so with a little more work and a lot of luck they hope
to see visible signs of construction at the ruins this summer. She turned the floor over to Ken
Remenschneider now and she would be happy to answer any questions for the Friends that you may
have at the end.

3

Ken stated that as Lisa said he is Ken Remenschneider from Remenschneider Associates and they
have the priviledge of taking Eric’s incredible design for this great resource and neighborhood and
help bring that to manifistation. He said he would like to start with the overall sight plan just to orient
everyone and refresh your memory on where this project has gone. He stated that they are looking
at the overall site plan which is organized as a progression of space along an east-west promenade
that begins at Springmill and moves to the east. You will see they have a drop-off zone and they
have the promenade that goes down the center of an ally of trees past the existing parking lot so that
it is fully axcessible to people who arrive and park in this area. Along the promenade arriving at the
ruins where the prominod actually surrounds the ruins and has kind of a performance stage area on
the west side of the ruins and then the shimmer pool picnic area on the east side. Looking at it in a
little more detail and most of us are familiar with the Orchard In Bloom event that happens here each
year and those of us who have had the priviliage of volunteering for receiving all the people that are
arriving in this zone and ushering them into the Orchard In Bloom, understand what the importance
of this space out here and creating a pull-up zone which can actually hold 2 buses at one time and
multiple cars. So, they have where they expanded through the drop-off zone they go to the John and
Evelyn Holliday Gateway with markers on either side of the prominod and they continue on through to
where both parking lots are fully accessible to the promenade. They move on to the drive and you
will see at certain locations along this route they will have medalions and various site impertinences
that accommodate the users needs at this new feature. Now going to the area around the ruins and
when you arrive in this zone you will actually encounter at the very beginning by the recognition
pilasters and the historic colonnade that then wraps around adjacent to the promenade so these
pilasters will be right at the end of the alley and will give them an opportunities to give recognition to
the primary donors to this feature. They have the colonnade lawn which sits in an area adjacent to
the stage and performance area and during events this is the area where you would see music being
performed and people enjoying music on blankets on the lawn but at non-event times it is obviously a
wonderful area to drop a blanket and have a picnic. Also part of their uitilization of the features that
are already there they will be repurposing the utility room and they will have their fountain equipment
in there. You can see that the gardens plank the ruins on the north, in the center and also on the
south and around the east side of the gizer fountain. On the east side of the ruins you have the
childrens water table that sits right below the scuptures and then the paved area immediately east of
that water table is a shimmer fountain, just a thin layer of water moving across it to add to kind of the
fun and excitement for children playing at the water table. Immediately adjacent to that the
promenade expands where we have some custome lounge chairs made out of teaque. Obviously a
place where parents are supervising their kids that are enjoying the shimmer fountain can relax and
read a book as well as keep an eye on their children. Finally the picnic lawn is immediately to the
east of this active area and actually as you think about it putting yourself just a little bit away from the
ruins that is probably the most striking vantage point of the ruins when they are completed. He then
presented a slide picture in more detail of the childrens water table and shimmer fountain. The water
table will be at a childs hight and have a channel along the back of it that will be the source of the
water that then flows across the top of the water table and it is designed with a lip on it so that the
water actually flows around follows that lip down to where it then hits a grove and then it drops down
to the paved area below and then the shimmer fountain is from the water table all the way back to the
edge of the edge of the promenade where there is the source of water that rises up from the channel
and slides across that paved area up towards the water table.
Ken showed pictures of examples of the shimmer fountains in Chicago very very popular in Chicago.
Ken then went on to talk a little bit about the green fountain. What we have here is a repurposed
horse troth which was part of the original design and they are taking this and turning it into the gizzer
fountain and then they will have a garden behind this with dence planting polinator plants which
makes for a landscape that attracts the birds and butterflys. Finally he wants to talk about in general
how the design has been zoned for various uses. He stated that they have the large zone that is
north and south of the promenade which they are calling the community festival zone. Much of the

4

tents that would be up for Orchard In Bloom would be in this area. The Promenade ally will be
designed to allow the flow of people both north and south through there to get from one side to the
other of the promenade. Next to this is the stage and concert area which sits right in the foreground
of the ruins with a paved area for setting up bands and so on, with the lawn area inside the circular
promenade also. Finally the smaller programed events could be staged on the shimmer pool
fountain side with the picnic lawn area. He opened it up at this point for any questions from the
Board.
Chairman Williams wanted to thank them again for their endeavers. When he first started he met
with the Friends and was shown their vision and they talked about it and he wondered if they would
be able to raise that amount of money within that amount of time and now to hear them state that
they have only $450,000 left to raise is amazing. He certainly appreciates all the hard work everyone
has done trying to raise the resources for this project. He also understands the importance of the
maintenance and how extremely beneficial having the endowment for this is really a wonderful thing.
Dr. Greenwood stated that her grandchildren frequent Holliday Park and they love it. One of her
grandaughters received an “A” in her science class because she was so involved with the nature at
Holliday Park. They always want grandma to take them there. They live along way from the park but
this is ideal for them and it is amazing how they still come back and they always want to visit Holliday
Park. Chairman Williams stated that this is what we want is for people to want to return.
Mr. Wynns stated that it is good work and on the 3 oasis of men scupture could they please
elaborate a little more on how this will be tied into the design. Mr. Remenschneider replied that the
scuptures will remain where they are on top of the columns and there has been some degridation.
Some of the limestone chunks have fallen off and they are in the process of evaluating how to
conduct those repairs structurely and how to avoid this happening in the future. Essentially they will
remain in their current location. Mr. Wynns also asked about some of the other statues around the
fountain that are missing heads, will their rennovation be included in this project? Mr.
Remenschneider stated that they are not utilizing them within this specific zone and they are not
removing outside of this zone either. Mr. Wynns again stated good job.
Chairman Williams asked if Mr. Bowling had anything to ask. Mr. Bowling stated that he also wants
to note that this project looks wonderful and that he doesn’t have grandchildren but his children live
all the way out east and they make their trips to Holliday Park quite frequently, mostly for the climbing
amenity at the playground. He hopes to return often soon.
Mr. Colvin stated that he would like to personally thank the Friends and that this has really been a
long journey and a fabulous project to work on but he really wants to extend his appreciation not only
from himself but from his whole team of the ability and openess to work with the staff in the
department and really truly listen to their concerns about the long term maintenance, about the
design and building this into not only the exhibit area, they talked a lot about the ADA issues and they
have a real creative plan and they kind of said oops, they missed a little of the ADA issues and he
brought that to the design teams attention and they quickly addressed it. He can’t tell you how much
that is appreciated because ultimately we can’t exist without partnerships like this and the investment
that they make both in time and in resources but they also have to have a product that the agency
can live with and being sensitive to some of the things that they have experienced in the past is so
critical and he can’t commend them enough for being responsive to this. They have had the luxury of
being very closely with both the landscape archetect, Smock Fansler on the construction side, and
God bless Eric when he was here, he thinks it really makes for a holistic project that come together
and satisfies both the internal staff who live and program these facilities and the partnership and
closeness we have with the Friends group. Thank you very much on behalf of himself and his team.

5

Mr. Wynns stated that he has one more thing. He knows that they said that their fundraising is
almost there and they are anticipating that the work might start this summer, if all your fundraising is
in place, when do you think this will be completed? Lisa answered that they would hope that it could
be completed by sometime next summer or sooner, they just have to receive those final dollars and
the Board feels very strongly that they will not move forward until they have all of the money they
need to raise, not only for the construction project but also for the endowment. Chairman Williams
stated that he thinks just kind of piggy back on this, this is one of the very first agreements that he
signed when he took over as director of the Parks Department and having talked with staff they were
very much concerned with not allowing any thing to happen until all of the money was raised to be
able to do this project including the endowment. Again, being new on the block, he didn’t know if
they would be able to raise the 3.2 million dollars that they had inspired to raise in such a short period
of time but he thinks if they are intent on building out and completing the construction with the same
ferver that they had with the raising of the money, then he has no doubt that they will get it done
sooner rather than later and he doesn’t want to put them on the spot to say when and he knows that
the construction documents will dictate some of this. He really would love to be able to see this come
to fruision and be open by next Summer if that is possible and we can have a great celebration to let
the people of Indianapolis know of all the great work and then showcase what they have
accomplished. He thanked them again.
Mr. Wynns asked Chairman Williams if he would have someone give a presentation on the RFP
outsourceing because he has been getting a lot of questions from the article in the paper and what it
stated but more of the details. Who in the department is heading this up? Chairman Williams stated
that Julee Jacob is over this RFP special project and what we will do is once we get all of the
responses back and evaluate them and they get to a period of time where they have selected the
vendors have been before the Board if they have a contract that is going to be voted on then they will
start talking about that. There is limitations as to what they can talk about because if they are in
negotiations then they will not be at liberty to discuss certain things, so, he could, and he will talk to
counsel about that. Mr. Wynns asked if the Board will be approving these. Chairman Williams stated
that it will depend on the result of the RFP process so if there are contracts that have to go before
the Board then certainly they will bring them before the Board and certain small projects whatever
that the Board has already vested, the power is in his hands to make approval on those then this is
what we will do. In any event, the Board will be made aware of what is going to happen prior to that
happening. And to answer your question more specifically about doing a presentation, he has to talk
to counsel and see what we can and cannot do. Mr. Wynns stated that he is not so much, yeah, just
the process. Chairman Williams stated that he understands that Mr. Wynns wants to know what the
process is, how many responses they receive. Mr. Wynns stated that they do not need to know what
the negotiations are taking place. He has people calling him about giving this and that away and
from a Board member standpoint. Chairman Williams stated that just for the listening public and very
briefly he has had a couple of people ask him the same thing. What they intend to do is be able to
solicit opportunities as they have done before in the past where they can improve upon our park
spaces. He knows that this is very vague to a certain extent, but, what they are looking to do is give
individuals or corporations, what have you, an opportunity to respond to an RFP that was set out
back in December of 2013, to give us an idea of what they could possibly do to improve upon our
parks add amenities, to give you an example, of the things that they have done in the past, like “Go
Ape”, where this is a truly, public-private partnership, so to the extent that people are saying that we
are just going to sell all of our parks or privatize all our parks, that was not the intent. They are
looking to have some really good public-private partnerships that will facilitate amenities and that kind
of thing, even something like we have done here with the Friends of Holliday Park, he would consider
that a public-private partnership where they are going to help us maintain and to a large extent,
redevelop, or rehabilitate our assets that we have in our park system. We can’t do that alone. Mr.
Wynns stated that the only reason that he asked is the fact that, and, Don may comment and may
not, we have gone into some very bad public-private partnerships. Ace Catering, he hates to call

6

them out, was a partner, took all the money and gave them bad facilities back. The velodrome,
partner, that we invested millions of dollars in it. He stated that he can go down the list of ones that
were public-private partnerships took the resources and did not do the investments, and he is just
saying, you know, he understand and this is his concern because we spent a lot of money rebuilding
facilities that were public-private partnerships. Post Road, and he is not going to call the venders out
because he does not want to put their names out there but he is just saying cautiously public-private
partnerships are good if they are going to benefit each other and this is all he is saying is the fact that
he hopes that whoever is doing the evaluations have some benchmarks of who is going to benefit.
We lost a lot of ground trying to recover for some terrible public-private partnerships. Chairman
Williams stated that you know, as far as the public trust is concerned, he thinks that the Friends of
Holliday Park, Mr. Wynns added, not them, and Chairman Williams said no, no, no. Mr. Wynns
stated that there is not an RFP out there for Holliday Park. Chairman Williams stated that from a
point of reference, that since they are here he thinks it is really fitting to discuss it in these terms, and
that is, as he has sat down and talked to them, he thinks that they were able to really understand his
position as the Director of Parks and Recreation for the City of Indianapolis, in saying that there are
certain things that they just are not going to let happen unless certain things are met. When we did
the agreement with them, and he thinks this is the first one in a long time, according to Don, that was
done this way that we would not let anything happen until there was substantial, actually the dollars
that were needed for this project were raised, and they understand that. Unless they went out and
raised X number of dollars for an endowment for a maintenance aspect of it they were not going to
enter into an agreement with them, so he thinks they did their do diligense as far as the Parks
Department is concerned to make sure that our partner understands their position and moving
forward, any other public-private partnerships that we have, that is what we are going to do and make
sure that our partners understand what it is that we expect to get out of this relationship. Having said
that, you know, things can always go bad. Mr. Wynns stated that one of the things, and he won’t
hold them up, you see is that the partner can always quit. The partner can always come in and say
“I’ve had enough” and walk away and we wind up digging ourselves out of the hole. Chairman
Williams stated that he totally understands this and he prides himself with being a pretty good stickler
on process and control, and with that being said, it is going to be incombent upon us to make sure
that whatever it is that we do, we have the best interest of the City at hand, in that the individuals that
are going to be proposing to do work with us have the where with on capacity to to do what it is that
they say they can do. If we don’t do our job in making sure that we evaluate legitimately what it is
that they are capable of doing then we are derilic in our duties, and he won’t be that way. He has
worked with Mr. Roach here, and he has been on committees with Mr. Williams when they have done
large long term contracts where they really take to heart their responsibilities as public servants to
make sure that they do their do diligence to do what is right for the City of Indianapolis and he will do
that. He will make sure that they have the appropriate personnel at the table to evaluate and if it
doesn’t make sense and it doesn’t seem like it is going to work for the City of Indianapolis, then they
will not enter into those kinds of agreements. We won’t “willy-nilly” do things; let’s just put it that way.
Chairman Williams asked if there were any other questions from the Board.
Adjournment
A motion was duly made by Dr. Greenwood for adjournment, seconded by by Mr. Wynns
and unanimously passed to adjourn.

7

The next Board of Parks and Recreation meeting is scheduled for February 27, 2014 at 3:45 p.m. to
5:00 p.m. in Room 260 of the City-County Building, 200 East Washington Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46204.
SUBMITTED:

APPROVED:

______
Louvenia Holstein, Board Secretary

John W. Williams, Chairman
Board of Parks and Recreation

Date

8

