
Preventing Combined Sewer Overflows

The City of Fort Wayne discharges a combination of sanitary sewage and
stormwater to the City’s rivers about 71 days each year.  The discharges
come from the City’s combined sewer system that serves much of the older
third of the City.  Over the next 18 years, Fort Wayne will spend about
$240 million making improvements to the sewer system.  The result will be
that the amount of sewage going to the rivers will be reduced by about 90%
and sewer discharges to the rivers will only occur about 4 days in a
typical year.

Reducing overflows from the sewer system will require a major investment by
City Utilities, but there are many things you can do at home to help the
City with its goal of improving river water quality:

    • Become Informed – Be a part of helping Fort Wayne improve its water
      quality. Take notice of cautionary signs posted at sewer overflow
      locations along the City’s three major rivers.   Results of the most
      recent river water quality tests are available on a pre-recorded water
      quality hotline operated by Fort Wayne City Utilities.  The number is
      (260)427-2297.


    • Receive Notice of Sewer Discharges – Fort Wayne City Utilities
      provides notice when sewer overflows may be or are occurring.  To
      request this notification go to www.cityoffortwayne.org/cleanrivers
      then follow the link to Sewer Overflow Reduction.  There, you can
      request an e-mail notice when sewers in Fort Wayne overflow.


    • Learn More -- Research to find out what other communities are doing
      about sewer overflows.  More than 700 cities around the country have
      sewer overflows and will be implementing programs to reduce them.


    • Conserve Water – Using less water in your home means less wastewater
      going into our sewers.  By watering your lawn less often, less water
      is able to run off into nearby stormdrains.  In combined sewer areas
      where overflows occur, reducing runoff may help reduce sewage
      discharges.  And, using less water means you’ll save on your water
      bill.


    • Use lawn chemicals safely and sparingly -- Do not apply chemicals
      before it rains or before watering the lawn. This will prevent excess
      chemicals from running off into the sewer system and entering the
      rivers. Always follow label instructions.

    • Reduce Impervious Surfaces – Install wood decks, and use gravel,
      mulch, or pervious asphalt instead of concrete patios, asphalt
      driveways, and paved paths. By using these types of surfaces, water
      will be able to penetrate the ground instead of contributing to sewer
      overflows.

    • Do Not Trash Stormdrains – Properly dispose of household hazardous
      wastes (HHW) such as motor oil, antifreeze, unused household cleaning
      products and pesticides.  Materials such as these can be disposed of
      at HHW collection facilities or at the annual Tox-Away Day sponsored
      by the Allen County Solid Waste Management District.

    • Mark Storm Drains in Your Neighborhood  -- Volunteer to attach markers
      to storm drains to remind citizens that anything that goes down the
      stormdrain goes directly into the rivers. The City of Fort Wayne will
      provide a special plaque and any other materials or instructions
      needed for installation. Contact Susan Beck at (260)427-6213 for more
      information!

    • Eliminate Your Septic System – Failed or failing septic systems can be
      a major cause of bacterial pollution in streams, ditches and rivers.
      Let Fort Wayne City Utilities know if you are interested in having a
      public sewer system installed to serve your property.

    • Plant a Rain Garden – A rain garden is a landscaped area where water
      from a downspout collects during a rain storm and is soaked into the
      ground instead of running off into a sewer.  The garden uses native
      plants to help soil absorb more water.


