Minutes for Richmond Environmental Sustainability Commission Meeting  1/13/16
Members present: Dave Brown, Curtis Healton, Joe Hellrung, Scott Hess, Ashley Schultz, Elijah Welch. 
The meeting began at 8:35 am, in the Engineering Conference Room in the Municipal Building.
We approved the December 2015 Commission minutes.
We began by discussing Commission membership renewals and the need to elect officers for the coming year.  Since several people were missing today, we decided to defer officer decisions until our next, February meeting.  We have already asked the mayor to renew terms for existing Commission members whose terms have expired.
We agreed to continue meeting in the Engineering Conference Room for the coming months, since the availability of the Community Room on Wednesday mornings at the time when we meet is not yet clear.  There is no official way to reserve the Engineering Conference Room, but we should be able to meet there -- and if necessary, we can move to the Council Chamber down the hall.
We spent the remainder of the meeting working on the Richmond Environmental Resources Guide, especially the sections drafted by Ashley, on sustainable living, and Scott, on local environment-related organizations and contacts.  We also brainstormed possible issues/ questions for the pollution remediation section. Curtis agreed to work on the industrial side of that area, while Joe will keep working on residential issues.  We will continue to work on other sections of the Guide next month, as time allows.
We decided that the Guide can include both questions and answers/ facts, as well as lists of organizations and contacts.  Our main goal, however, is to direct people to places where their questions can be answered, not to try to answer all possible questions ourselves.  In some cases we can provide both a brief answer to a question, when it is straightforward, and links to more information and resources if needed.  We will not list the names and titles of specific people as contacts, just overall phone and email contact information for organizations or departments, both because specific contact names are likely to change over time and because the main contact sources will be more useful for answering people's questions.  We decided we will publish the Guide only online, not in paper: to save money and avoid the issue of funding, and because we can provide live links online and the Guide will be easier to update in that format.  We should think about dovetailing our questions and answers to possible Google searches, to lead people with Richmond environment-related questions directly to the Guide.  
Scott asked people who are still working on their sections to send them to him by the Monday before the next meeting in February; he will again send out a reminder a week before that day.
The meeting adjourned at 9:35 am.
