Minutes for Richmond Environmental Sustainability Commission Meeting  2/10/16
Members present: Curtis Healton, Joe Hellrung, Scott Hess, Ashley Schultz, and community members Leighanne Hahn and Stephen Hughes. 
The meeting began at 8:35 am, in the Law Conference Room in the Municipal Building.
We approved the January 2016 Commission minutes.
Ashley reported that the Community Room is available the third Wednesday of each month at our meeting time, but not the first and second Wednesdays.  So we will go back to meeting on the third Wednesday of each month -- Ashley has reserved the room for us on those days for the rest of the year.
Ashley told us she will be moving away from Richmond later in the month to take a job in New York state.  We'll miss you, Ashley, good luck!  She introduced her replacement for her current position, Stephen Hughes, who can also replace her on the Commission.  We may also have to replace Melanie Lennon, Dave Brown, and Emmie Dill, because of schedule conflicts and other reasons.  We will discuss possible nominations to fill these Commission slots, as well as elect our officers for the current year, in our next, March meeting.  
Curtis handed out a draft of places for industries to recycle and dispose of various materials, for our Richmond Sustainability Guide.  He asked whether he should list both recycling and landfill options, when recycling options exist.  We decided to introduce this section of the guide by saying that, since our goal is to promote sustainability, we will offer only recycling options when those options are available (industries will know where to ask about the landfill, in any case).  When we do list landfill options, as the only options, we will label them as such.  In response to another question, we decided that since this is a local guide, we will list only options in Wayne County and surrounding counties, if such options are available.  
We discussed an issue that has come up around the lack of disposal or recycling sites for old televisions in Richmond: the landfill can't legally accept televisions, and there is nowhere to dispose of them in town for under $25, which creates an incentive to dump them illegally.  Curtis is following up on a connection, but beyond that we do not have any specific suggestions at this time (apart from the obvious possibilities of the city seeking other alternative recycling options and/ or subsidizing television disposal in some form).  Alison Zajdel has raised attention around the issue and will take part in a coming meeting in the Mayor's office to help resolve it.
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 am.
