
Enhanced Access Review Committee
                               Meeting Minutes
                                 January 16
                             Room 224 –2:00 P.M.

In Attendance: Mr. White, representing the Office of Finance and
Management; Mr. Swenson, representing the Department of Metropolitan
Development; Mr. Bowes, representing the Marion County Assessors Office;
Ms. Price, representing the Township Assessors Offices, Ms. Land,
representing the Marion County Treasurers Office; Ms. Breaux, representing
the Marion County Auditor’s Office; Ms. Guilfoy and Ms. Acton,
representing, LoGo Indiana; Mr. Petrecca, representing the Information
Services Agency.

Guests: Miss Nussmeyer, Marion County Clerk’s Office

Based on the Committee having eight members, five constitutes a quorum. Mr.
White called the meeting to order at 2:07

Approval of the November 28, 2007 Minutes

Mr. Bowes made a motion to approve the December 20, 2007 minutes. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Swenson and carried unanimously.

Custodial Agency Approval Update:

      Whitley County Work Release - new
      Social Security Administration – new
      US Attorney’s Office
      Noble County Probation
      Indiana Intelligence Fusion Center

Enhanced Access Review Committee Director’s Report

Ms. Acton reported that LoGO Indiana collected and transferred over $6.2
million in revenue for City/County partners.  This is an increase of 13.3%
from last year.  Six additional online business licenses were deployed.
Both new and renewal license applications for Hotel/Motel and Public Place
of Lodging, Secondhand Motor Vehicle, Groomer, Kennel, Pet Store and Stable
are now available online.

Ms. Acton reported mid-December, LoGO deployed a change to the Online
Traffic Ticket application for the Marion County Clerk’s Office.  LoGo
deployed several enhancements to applications in December.  A new graph was
added to the report and the recommendation was made to rename the
statistics ‘Waived Fees’.

Mr. Bowes asked for clarification on the reporting of transactions and
asked if  items such as civil court or property searches in which the
customer plugs in a name or address are reported.  Mr. Bowes asked if
marriage license searches are reported.  Ms. Acton stated that they were
not.  Mr. White noted that on the two charts provided statistics on
searches are those that a fee is paid IF the Committee requires (non-waived
subscribers).  Mr. Petrecca noted that number totals  37.5% of the total
transactions fee and is free to internal agency users such as the Clerk.

Treasurer’s Report

The Treasurer’s Report was distributed and reflected Net Enhanced Access
Funds Available (Fund Balance less Outstanding Liabilities) of $606,618.70
as.

Other Business

Mr. Petrecca discussed the Committee’s recommendation to use EARC funds for
LoGo Indiana’s application development and support.  The recommendation
will need formalized and presented to the IT Board for approval.  The
appropriation would be subject to City County Council review.  Ms. Land
explained that over the past few years Enhanced Access Funds have not been
a priority with the agencies due to time constraints and the urgency of
other initiatives taking precedence.  Mr. Bowes asked if financial
activities were in line with the City Controller at the time.  Ms. Land
offered that she did not believe so but that the situation could have been
associated with the Treasurers Office attendance and participation in the
Committee meetings specifically providing agency statistics and fund
balances.  Spending the revenue has time limitations.  Ms. Land suggested
the a sub-committee propose a ‘formula’ establishing the percentage of
revenue per agency.

Mr. Swenson offered that there is a City Ordinance that establishes a
certain percentage to go back to the agency.  In the past the Recorders
Office was notified of the existing funds but did not issue a report.  Ms.
Land clarified the Recorders Office was six months behind on deposits at
the time but are now current.  Funds have not been requested.  Mr. Bowes
stated that he would like the opportunity to review the ordinance and gain
an understanding of who has authority to release funds to who and for what.
 Ms. Land explained that the Committee is authorized to recommend a
specific dollar amount.  The appropriation will be subject to council
approval.  Mr. White commented that the Enhanced Access Funds are for
application development and other types of initiatives.

Mr. White proposed that the Committee meet every other month (March, May,
July, September November) given there would be no legal or contractual
concerns with doing so.  The meetings have been scheduled for 2008 and
could remain on Committee Members calendars should a meeting be needed.
Mr. Swenson had concerns limiting the number of meetings during the first
quarter with the need to establish the costs of work.  Once the
negotiations are over, reducing the meetings would be less of a concern.
Ms. Land suggested off line meetings continue to take place during the
first quarter.  Mr. Bowes asked when the LoGO Indiana contract expires and
logistically how much time is needed to prepare for the RFP.  Mr. Bowes
suggested meeting every other month on the odd months and
November/December.  Mr. Swenson asked if Mr. Petrecca were okay with the
proposed schedule.   Mr. Petrecca stated that meetings every other week are
ongoing with LoGO Indiana and the Committee could convene if needed.
Meeting in March should allow adequate time to prepare.  Mr. Petrecca
offered that he definitely wants assistance with this initiative.   Mr.
Swenson noted that some assistance may be available.  Ms. Price asked for
clarification that a meeting could be called during an off month if needed.
 She and Ms. Breaux agreed to the recommended Committee meeting schedule
change.

Mr. Petrecca stated that Mr. Howell, legal counsel, recommended the
Committee report to the IT Board the denial of the fee increase proposal.
Mr. Petrecca stated that he could like to pull out the current contract
agreement and identify key activities to include in the RFP.  Mr. Bowes and
Mr. Swenson volunteered to participate in the RFP process.  Mr. White
recommend any Committee member interested in participating contact Mr.
Petrecca.  Ms. Price offered that she is heavily committed with the
Property Replacement System and would not be available to assist with the
RFP.  Mr. Petrecca suggested having the draft RFP ready by the first half
of the first quarter and review the second half.  Mr. White asked if the
next meeting date of March 19 would work.  Mr. Petrecca stated that date
should be fine.  Mr. Bowes noted concerns that the process may experience a
slow down with the recent transitions in the Office of Corporation Counsel.
 Ms. Price asked about the review process and who would be involved.   Mr.
Swenson suggested RFP materials and discussion be make available on a
Sharepoint Portal.  Mr. White indicated that was an excellent idea.  Mr.
Swenson made a motion for the Enhanced Access Committee to meet every other
month (March, May, July, September, November and December) through November
and add December.  All meetings should remain on Committee member calendars
in the event a meeting be necessary.  The motion was seconded by Ms. Price
and passed unanimously.

Next meeting will be March 19, 2008, Room 224.

The January 16, 2008 EARC adjourned at 2:30.

