Metropolitan Council Meeting
Tuesday, January 16, 2001
The Metropolitan Council met in regular session on this date at 7:00 p.m. in the Metropolitan Courthouse.
The invocation was offered by Reverend Peter Van Eys of Calvary United Methodist Church.
The Metropolitan Council gave the pledge of allegiance to the American Flag.
The roll was called and the following members were present during the progress of the meeting: Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver, and President Steine (39); Absent: Derryberry, Stanley (2).
The Minutes of the regular meeting of January 2, 2001 were approved.
- ELECTIONS AND CONFIRMATIONS -
Metropolitan Nashville Arts Commission
Appointment of Ms. Constance Gee to the Auditorium Commission for a term expiring January 1, 2005. The Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections Committee recommended the appointment, and Mr. Ferrell moved for confirmation, which motion was seconded and adopted by a unanimous vote of the Council.
Public, Educational and Governmental Access (PEG) Committee
Reappointment of Mr. Elliott C. Mitchell to the Public, Educational and Governmental Access (PEG) Committee for a term expiring November 4, 2003. The Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections Committee recommended the appointment, and Mr. Ferrell moved for confirmation, which motion was seconded and adopted by a unanimous vote of the Council.
Mr. Wallace asked to go on record as opposing any board or commission appointments of non-Davidson County residents.
Mr. Ferrell announced that the term expirations of the following appointees confirmed at the previous meeting should be amended as follows: Arts Commission: Paul Bell, Jeff Ockerman, and Steve Sirls - terms expire 1/1/2005; Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency: Leigh Walton - term expires 11/5/2005.
Mr. Ferrell, Chairman of the Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections Committee, reported that the Committee had considered and recommended disapproval of the following two proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Metropolitan Council.
Rule 20
By adding the following new paragraph:
Any zoning ordinance, which is amended on second or third reading,     which was previously disapproved by the Planning Commission, must be re-referred to the     Planning Commission for a recommendation prior to adoption on third and final reading.
Mr. Wallace moved to approve the proposed rule change, which motion was seconded and failed by the following vote: "Ayes" Tucker, McClendon, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Arriola (6); "Noes" Ferrell, Waters, Gilmore, Nollner, Hall, Beehan, Hart, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, Greer, Hausser, Hand, Summers, Shulman, Sontany, Jenkins (18); "Abstaining" Gentry, Black, Majors, Campbell, Dillard, Bogen, Alexander, Kerstetter, Turner, Lineweaver (10).
Rule 32
By amending the third paragraph and inserting after the phase "is being debated on" and before the phrase "third reading, a motion to table" the following provision:
second reading or
Mr. Wallace moved to approve the proposed rule change, which motion was seconded and failed by the following vote: "Ayes" Tucker, Gilmore, Majors, Hall, Hart, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Bogen, Summers, Arriola, Alexander, Kerstetter, Turner (16); "Noes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Nollner, Beehan, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Hand, Shulman, Sontany, Knoch, Jenkins, Williams (17); "Abstaining" Gentry, Black, Campbell, Lineweaver (4).
- RESOLUTIONS -
RESOLUTION NO. RS2000-434
A resolution requesting the Davidson County Delegation to the Tennessee General Assembly to introduce and adopt legislation that would permit persons convicted of felonies, except murder, rape, treason or voter fraud, to have their full rights of citizenship and right to suffrage restored automatically upon completing service of any sentence imposed. The Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees recommended deferment of the resolution. Mr. Wallace moved to defer action on the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
RESOLUTION NO. RS2000-447
A resolution requesting the Mayor to consider acquiring and renovating the historic Union Station train shed located in the Gulch area in downtown Nashville. The Codes, Fair and Farmers Market and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees recommended indefinite deferment of the resolution. Mr. Summers moved to defer action indefinitely on the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-480
A resolution requesting the Davidson County Delegation to the Tennessee General Assembly to introduce and have enacted legislation which would require seat belts on all school buses. The Education and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees recommended deferment of the resolution. Ms. Gilmore offered Amendment No.1 and moved for its adoption, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council. Ms. Gilmore moved to defer action on the resolution as amended, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-481
A resolution requesting the Davidson County Delegation to the Tennessee General Assembly to support the adoption of legislation that would enable local governments to impose real estate transfer taxes. The Budget and Finance Committee recommended deferment of the resolution. Mr. Alexander moved to defer action on the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-482
A resolution requesting the Tennessee Secretary of State, the State Coordinator of Elections, and the Tennessee General Assembly to undertake a comprehensive study to improve the conduct of elections statewide and to enact legislation which would provide for uniform voting methods. The resolution was approved by the Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections Committee. Mr. Wallace moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-483
A resolution naming the complex of buildings on Omohundro Drive "The Buddy Williams Water Treatment Complex". The Public Works Committee recommended indefinite deferment of the resolution. Mr. Loring moved to defer action indefinitely on the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-484
A resolution to classify public roads in Davidson County, Tennessee. The resolution was approved by the Public Works Committee. Mr. Gentry moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-485
A resolution authorizing the Metropolitan Government to enter into Utility Relocation Contract No. 5638 with the State of Tennessee, Department of Transportation, for Distribution and Collection System Relocations, said construction being necessary as part of State Project No. IM-65-3(100)87, 19012-2152-44, I-65 from I-24 to SR-386 (Vietnam Veterans Parkway), (Metro Project Nos. 99-SG-170 & 99-WG-159). The resolution was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Works Committees. Ms. Balthrop moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-486
A resolution approving an amendment to a grant between the State of Tennessee, Department of Children’s Services and The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County. The resolution was approved by the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Gentry moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-487
A resolution approving Amendment No. 3 to Grant Z-98-087978-00 from the State of Tennessee, Department of Military, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency to The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County increasing the grant amount to $13,325,712.00 for the provision of disaster assistance. Mr. Gentry offered a substitute resolution and moved that it be accepted for filing and no objection was made.
SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-487
A substitute resolution approving Amendment No. 3 to Grant Z-98-087978-00 from the State of Tennessee, Department of Military, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency to the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County decreasing the grant amount to $13,325,712.00 for the provision of disaster assistance. The substitute resolution was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees. Mr. Gentry moved to adopt the substitute resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver(37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-488
A resolution approving an Agreement of Understanding by and between the Utah State Internship Dietetic Internship Program and The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by and through the Metropolitan Board of Health, to establish the framework within which the Internship Program and the Metropolitan Board of Health can provide learning experiences for dietetic interns. The resolution was approved by the Budget and Finance and Health, Hospitals and Social Services Committees. Mr. Haddox moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-489
A resolution authorizing the Department of Law to compromise and settle the lawsuit of James Head and Tonya Ervin-Head against the Metropolitan Government in the amount of $12,000.00 and directing that this amount be paid out of the Self-Insured Liability Fund. The resolution was approved by the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Gentry moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2001-490
A resolution authorizing the Metro Sports Authority and Powers Management LLC to install, construct and maintain an awning over the sidewalk right-of-way at 501 Broadway, (Proposal No. 2001M-003U-09), all of which is more particularly described herein. The resolution was approved by the Planning Commission, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Wallace moved to adopt the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
RESOLUTION NO. RS2000-491
A resolution encouraging the promotion of training for use of automatic external defibrillators and training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation among the citizens of the area of the Metropolitan Government to promote improved cardiac survival rates. The Health, Hospitals and Social Services Committee recommended deferment of the resolution. Mr. Haddox moved to defer action on the resolution, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
- BILLS ON INTRODUCTION AND FIRST READING -
BILL NO. BL2001-582
An ordinance granting a franchise to Digital Access Corporation of Tennessee, Inc. to construct, operate, and maintain a telecommunications system within Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County under the provisions of Metropolitan Code of Laws, Title 6, Rule 26. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-583
An ordinance approving a lease by and between the Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency ("MDHA") and The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, acting by and through the Metropolitan Public Schools of Nashville and Davidson County, to provide a facility at 3810 Georgia Court for the One Room Drop-In School for educational services to be offered to at-risk families. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance, Education and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-584
An ordinance approving a contract by and between the State of Tennessee, Administrative Office of the Courts ("AOC"), and The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, for and on behalf of the Twentieth Judicial District Trial Courts, for the performance of professional services needed for carrying out the activities of the Divorce Education and Mediation Pilot Project of the Twentieth Judicial District, for reimbursement by the State of Tennessee to the Metropolitan Government in an amount not to exceed $10,000 for the performance of said services. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance Committee by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-585
An ordinance to amend the Metropolitan Code of Laws, Chapter 16.24, to adopt minimum standards for all buildings, structures and or premises, and to amend relative to dwellings and structures unfit for human habitation, occupation or use; and to amend Chapter 2.88 by renaming the Board of Housing Code Appeals, as well as other amendments. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Codes, Fair and Farmers Market Committee by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-586
An ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property by negotiation or condemnation for 12th Avenue South, from Halcyon Avenue to Caruthers Street, Project No. 99-D-18. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-587
An ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property by negotiation or condemnation for the purpose of acquiring utility easements for use in public projects of The Metropolitan Government and specifically with relation to Project No. 99-SL-222, Oak Highlands Off-Site Sewer. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-588
An ordinance authorizing the sale of certain property described herein (Part of Parcel 5, Tax Map 51-2) located at 321 Port Drive, to the State of Tennessee in conjunction with the construction of Project No. 19012-2152-44. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance, Education and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-589
An ordinance accepting a $70,000 payment from Seven Springs Associates, LLC, for improvements to Cloverland Drive. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance and Public Works Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-590
An ordinance accepting the donation of twenty (20) portable radios to the Metropolitan Police Department Information Services Division from Motorola Communications and Electronics. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees by a voice vote of the Council.
Without objection the rules were suspended for consideration of one (1) late bill.
BILL NO. BL2001-591
An ordinance approving the transfer of the cable television franchise held by Intermedia Partners Southeast to Comcast Cable Communications, Inc. Upon motion duly seconded, the bill passed first reading and was referred to the Budget and Finance and CATV Special Committee by a voice vote of the Council.
- BILLS ON SECOND READING -
BILL NO. BL2000-201
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from AR2a District to RS15 District property at Barton Lane (unnumbered), abutting the south margin of the Cumberland River (159.64 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-023G-14), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Loring moved to defer action on the bill to the second regular meeting in February, the bill being requested by John E. Stevenson, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-457
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R10 District to OL District properties at 105 Whitsett Road and the south margin of Whitsett Road (unnumbered), opposite Sterling Boone Drive (2.26 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-102U-11), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Ms. McClendon moved to defer action on the bill to the second regular meeting in February, the bill being requested by Jim Fleming – Music Row Printing, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-484
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from CL District to RM20 District property at 2505 Merry Oaks Drive, approximately 150 feet south of Springview Drive (1.4 acres), (Proposal No. 99Z-107U), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Loring moved to defer action indefinitely on the bill, the bill being requested by David W. Gaw Family L.P., which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-497
An ordinance amending the Metropolitan Code, Sections 16.52.010 through 16.52.060 relative to structures unfit for occupation or use. The Codes, Fair and Farmers Market Committee recommended deferment of the bill. Mr. Briley moved to defer action on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-498
An ordinance amending the Metropolitan Code, Sections 10.86.010 and 10.86.040 through 10.86.050 relative to the duties of the Vacant Property Review Commission. The Codes, Fair and Farmers Market Committee recommended deferment of the bill. Mr. Briley moved to defer action on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-525
An ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of Water and Sewerage Services to enter into agreements with the State of Tennessee in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated 68-221-102, 68-221-106 and Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation rules that certify its authority to approve water and wastewater engineering construction plans and hereby establishes a fee system for the Department of Water and Sewerage Services to charge for such review and approval of plans. The bill was approved by the Public Works Committee; the Budget and Finance Committee recommended indefinite deferment of the bill. Mr. Knoch moved to defer action indefinitely on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-531
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from RS40 District to CS District a portion of property located at 9051 Highway 100, west of Old Harding Lane (1.04 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-144G-06), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Lineweaver moved to defer action on the bill so that an additional neighborhood meeting can be held, the bill being requested by Dwight M. Roper – Bellevue Auto, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-538
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from RS10 District to RM15 District properties at 732 Due West Avenue North, abutting the west margin of Interstate 65 and Old Due West Avenue (13.81 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-006G-02), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Nollner moved to defer action on the bill to the second regular meeting in February, the bill being requested by Freeman Webb Company, Realtors, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-555
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R8 district to CS district property at 3225 Whites Creek Pike, approximately 50 feet south of Briley Parkway (3.86 acres), (Proposal No. 2001Z-002U-03), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and approved by the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Ms. Gilmore moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-566
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by renaming portions of McCrory Creek Road and Couchville Pike; and by naming an unnamed road, (Proposal No. 2000M-108U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, E-911 Board, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees; the Traffic and Parking Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Ponder, on behalf of the sponsor, moved to defer action on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-569
An ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property by negotiation or condemnation for use in a public project for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County and specifically with relation to the construction of a new elementary school and a new middle school in the Mt. Pisgah Road area. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission; the Budget and Finance, Education and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees recommended deferment. Mr. Gentry moved to defer action on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-570
An ordinance authorizing the sale of certain property described herein (Part of Parcel 166, Tax Map 51) located east of Interstate 65 and south of Due West Avenue, to the State of Tennessee in conjunction with the construction of Project No. 19012-2152-44. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Nollner moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-571
An ordinance approving the transfer to the State of Tennessee of any interests that The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County may have in certain real property known as the Hoggatt Family Cemetery. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Gentry, on behalf of the sponsor, moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-572
An ordinance approving an agreement between the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County and the State of Tennessee for reimbursement of funds expended for litter pickup using inmate labor. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees. Mr. Gentry moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-573
An ordinance authorizing Robert and Deena Cole (COLE) to participate with the Metropolitan Government, Department of Water and Sewerage Services, for the construction of Project No. 97-SG-84. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Works Committees. Mr. Knoch moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-574
An ordinance approving a project cooperation agreement between the Metropolitan Government and the U.S. Department of the Army, through the Army Corps of Engineers, for stabilization and improvements to the Metro Center Levee and for construction of a greenway on the levee. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance, Public Works and Parks, Library, Recreation and Auditorium Committees. Mr. Knoch moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-575
An ordinance readopting the Code of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, Tennessee, prepared by Book Publishing Company, including supplemental and replacement pages thereof, containing certain ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before September 21, 2000. The bill was approved by the Rules-Confirmations-Public Elections Committee. Mr. Gentry moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-576
An ordinance authorizing the Metropolitan Government to enter into Utility Relocation Contract No. 5634 with the State of Tennessee, Department of Transportation, for the necessary construction of certain utilities as part of State Project No. 19036-2217-04, involving SR-12 from Pecan Valley Road to Bull Run Road and Metro Project No. 93-WG-76A. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Works Committees. Ms. Gilmore moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-577
An ordinance authorizing conveyance of a temporary easement from The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County to the Nashville Electric Service. The bill was approved by the Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Wallace moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-578
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by closing an unused portion of Willowbrook Drive (Proposal No. 2000M-130U-11), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Traffic and Parking Commission, Public Works, Traffic and Parking and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. McClendon moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-579
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by renaming 11th Avenue Industrial Boulevard, (Proposal No.2000M-129U-09), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, E-911 Board; the Public Works, Traffic and Parking and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees approved the bill with an amendment. Mr. Wallace offered Amendment No. 1 and moved for its adoption, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council. Mr. Wallace moved to pass the bill on second reading as amended, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-580
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by abandoning a portion of Brick Church Pike, (Proposal No. 2000M-141G-02), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Traffic and Parking Commission, Public Works, Traffic and Parking and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. Balthrop moved to pass the bill on second reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2001-581
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by abandoning an unnamed alley from Winfrey Street to its terminus at Alley No. 190 lying between Lewis Street and Fairfield Avenue (Proposal No. 2000M-140U-09), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Traffic and Parking Commission, Public Works, and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees; the Traffic and Parking Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Wallace moved to pass the bill on second reading and defer action on the bill to the second regular meeting in February for a Traffic and Parking Commission recommendation, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
- BILLS ON THIRD READING -
SUBSTITUTE BILL NO. BL2000-424
A substitute ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by abandoning a portion of Redmon Street located east of 37th Avenue North (Proposal No. 2000M-071U-07), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Traffic and Parking Commission, Public Works and Traffic and Parking Committees; the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Summers moved to defer action indefinitely on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-485
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by canceling and amending a portion of the Commercial (General) Planned Unit Development District abutting the west margin of Franklin Pike and the north margin of Gale Lane, classified OL District and proposed for SCC and R10 Districts (7.19 acres), to cancel a portion approved for a 36,000 square foot church facility to allow for a 48,000 square foot retail facility as was originally approved, (Proposal No. 89P-022U-10), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Mr. Greer moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (38); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-486
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from OL District to R10 and SCC Districts property at Gale Lane (unnumbered), approximately 100 feet east of Vaulx Lane (7.19 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-062U-10), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Mr. Greer moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (38); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-515
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from CS District to IWD District property at Industrial Drive (unnumbered), approximately 1,440 feet east of Robinson Road (6.91 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-116G-14), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Mr. Brown moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (38); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-517
An ordinance amending Section 2.24.250 of the Metropolitan Code by providing that property transferred from one department or agency of Metropolitan Government to the Board of Public Education for school purposes shall automatically revert to such department or agency when no longer used for school purposes. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Education Committees. Ms. Arriola moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Nollner, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (38); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-519
An ordinance approving a shared parking agreement between the Edmondson Pike Medical Center LLC, and The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, acting through the Nashville Public Library, allowing the Edmondson Pike Medical Center to use the Edmondson Pike Library parking lot and in return allowing the Edmondson Pike Library to use the Edmondson Pike Medical Center parking lot. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance, Parks, Library, Recreation and Auditorium and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Jenkins moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-529
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by applying the Neighborhood Landmark Overlay District to property located at 200 Nashboro Boulevard, approximately 850 feet east of Murfreesboro Pike, zoned RM6 with a Residential Planned Unit Development Overlay District (7.33 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-131U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. Sontany moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-530
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from IWD District to MUL District property at 3628 Redmon Street, approximately 300 feet east of 37th Avenue North (3.44 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-154U-07), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee recommended deferment. Mr. Summers moved to defer action indefinitely on the bill, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-533
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from AR2a District to RS20 District property abutting the northeast margin of Dickerson Pike, approximately 1,694 feet northwest of Tinnin Road (4.74 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-125G-02), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Ms. Balthrop moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-534
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R8 District to CL District property at 2205 Buena Vista Pike and to CN District property at 2207 Buena Vista Pike, approximately 62 feet northeast of Cliff Drive (.73 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-127U-03), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission; the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee approved with an amendment. Mr. Black offered Amendment No. 1 and moved for its adoption, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council. Mr. Black moved to pass the bill on third reading as amended, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (29); "Noes" Knoch (1); "Abstaining" Hausser, Wallace, Bogen, Holloway (4).
BILL NO. BL2000-536
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from IR District to IG District a portion of property at 7200 Centennial Boulevard, approximately 500 feet west of Briley Parkway (20 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-148U-07), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. Hand moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-542
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from AR2a District to RS10 District properties at 3187 Hamilton Church Road and Hamilton Church Road (unnumbered), approximately 2,100 feet east of Murfreesboro Pike (6 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-143U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Ponder moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-543
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by making applicable to properties at 3187 Hamilton Church Road and Hamilton Church Road (unnumbered), approximately 2,100 feet east of Murfreesboro Pike (6 acres), classified AR2a District and proposed for RS10 District, the provisions of a Planned Unit Development District, to permit the development of 22 single-family lots (Proposal No. 2000P-009U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Ponder moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-544
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from RS10 District to CS District property at 333 Homestead Road, approximately 715 feet west of Dickerson Pike (1.07 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-128U-05), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Majors moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Tucker, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Hart, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (37); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-545
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R20 District to R10 District property at 2409 Abbott Martin Road, abutting the western terminus of Caylor Road (7.98 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-138U-10), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Briley moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Lineweaver (29); "Noes" Tucker (1); "Abstaining" Waters, Williams (2).
BILL NO. BL2000-546
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by amending the preliminary plan of the Residential Planned Unit Development District located at 2409 Abbott Martin Road, abutting the western terminus of Caylor Road, classified R20 district and proposed for R10 district (7.98 acres), to permit the addition of 7.98 acres and a 25 unit single-family development to the existing 151 unit single-family development, (Proposal No. 184-84-U-10), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Briley moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Lineweaver (29); "Noes" Tucker (1); "Abstaining" Waters, Williams (2).
President Steine resumed the chair at this time
BILL NO. BL2000-547
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by amending a portion of the Residential Planned Unit Development District located abutting the western terminus of Ridgelake Parkway, east of Sawyer Brown Road, classified R10 and RM4 District (25.78 acres), to abandon 1,150 feet of an existing unimproved right-of-way of Ridgelake Parkway, (Proposal No. 114-84-G-06), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Bogen moved to defer action indefinitely on the bill, the bill being requested by Walter H. Davidson and Associates, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council.
BILL NO. BL2000-548
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R10 District to CL District a portion of property at 1208 Murfreesboro Pike, approximately 350 feet south of Kermit Drive (.52 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-132U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Ponder, on behalf of the sponsor, moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-549
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from AR2a District to IWD District property at 12814 Old Hickory Boulevard, abutting the south margin of the CSX Railroad and the east margin of Interstate 24 (249.82 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-135G-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Ponder, on behalf of the sponsor, offered Amendment No. 1 and moved for its adoption, which motion was seconded and adopted by a voice vote of the Council. Mr. Ponder moved to pass the bill on third reading as amended, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-550
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from CL district to CS district properties at 616 McGavock Pike and Elm Hill Pike (unnumbered), approximately 1,200 feet east of Briley Parkway (3.74 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-151U-14), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and approved by the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Mr. Loring moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (31); "Noes" (0); "Abstaining" Wallace, Summers (2).
BILL NO. BL2000-551
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R10 District to CL District properties at 619 McGavock Pike, McGavock Pike (unnumbered), and 2506 Elm Hill Pike (2.95 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-136U-14), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Loring moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-552
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from RS30 district to RS15 district properties at 2925 Western Hills Drive and Western Hills Drive (unnumbered), approximately 170 feet north of Gaywinds Court (1.07 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-153U-14), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was disapproved by the Planning Commission and approved by the Planning, Zoning and Historical Committee. Mr. Loring moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (31); "Noes" (4); "Abstaining" Hall, Wallace (2).
BILL NO. BL2000-553
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from R6 and OR20 Districts to MUL District 27 properties between MetroCenter Boulevard, Clay Street, and Dominican Drive (4.16 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-133U-08), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Haddox moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Loring, Greer, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Summers, Shulman, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Lineweaver (27); "Noes" Ponder, McClendon, Hausser, Arriola (4); "Abstaining" Hand, Bogen, Williams (3).
BILL NO. BL2000-554
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from AR2a District to RS20 District property at 1542 Springfield Highway, abutting the north margin of Old Springfield Pike (1.04 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-142G-02), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. Balthrop moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-556
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing from CL District to OR40 District a portion of properties at 5548 and 5588 Franklin Pike Circle, abutting the north margin of Old Hickory Boulevard (11.92 acres), (Proposal No. 2000Z-140U-12), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Jenkins moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-557
An ordinance to amend Title 17 of the Metropolitan Code of Laws, the Zoning Ordinance of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by amending and canceling a portion of the Commercial (General) Planned Unit Development District located abutting the north margin of Old Hickory Boulevard and the east margin of Franklin Pike Circle, classified OR20 and CL districts and proposed for OR40 district for a portion (14.42 acres), to cancel parcel 55 on tax map 160 (1.20 acres) and to develop 130 condominium units, a 10-story 250,000 square foot office building and two 8,000 square foot restaurants, replacing 366,000 square feet of restaurants, office, and an extended-stay hotel, (Proposal No. 94P-009U-12), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Jenkins moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-562
An ordinance approving the sale of certain property held by The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, Tennessee (Map 93-16, Parcel 425; 79 Robertson Street). The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Budget and Finance and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Wallace moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-563
An ordinance authorizing the Police Department of The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County to accept the donation of Tennessee Walking Horses from various private individuals. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Safety-Beer, Wine and Whiskey Committees. Ms. Hand moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-564
An ordinance authorizing the Metropolitan Mayor to execute an Interagency Memorandum of Understanding with the Nashville Electric Service for the Department of Water and Sewerage Services to purchase electrical power facilities at the K. R. Harrington Water Treatment Plant. The bill was approved by the Budget and Finance and Public Works Committees. Mr. Ponder moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-565
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by changing the name of "Two Mile Parkway" to "Rivergate Parkway", (Proposal No. 2000M-124G-04), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, E-911 Board, Public Works, Traffic and Parking and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Ms. Balthrop moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-567
An ordinance to amend the Official Street and Alley Acceptance and Maintenance Map for The Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, by closing a portion of McCrory Creek Road from Pulley Road to its terminus; and a portion of Couchville Pike from McCrory Creek Road to Donelson Pike (Proposal No. 2000M-106U-13), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Traffic and Parking Commission, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Ponder moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
BILL NO. BL2000-568
An ordinance authorizing Twenty One Management, LLC to construct, install, and maintain an awning over the sidewalk at 300 Second Avenue South, with poles located within the sidewalk; and four architectural poles mounted lights within the Second Avenue South right of way (Proposal No. 2000M-088U-09), all of which is more particularly described herein. The bill was approved by the Planning Commission, Public Works and Planning, Zoning and Historical Committees. Mr. Wallace moved to pass the bill on third reading, which motion was seconded and adopted by the following vote: "Ayes" Ferrell, Waters, Briley, Gentry, Gilmore, Black, Majors, Hall, Beehan, Campbell, Dillard, Balthrop, Brown, Ponder, Loring, McClendon, Greer, Hausser, Wallace, Haddox, Whitmore, Hand, Bogen, Summers, Shulman, Arriola, Sontany, Alexander, Holloway, Kerstetter, Knoch, Jenkins, Turner, Williams, Lineweaver (35); "Noes" (0).
Upon motion duly seconded, the meeting was adjourned.

