Sediment Pollution
From the Marion County, Indiana, Soil and Water Conservation District,
October 2009

Sediment is the #1 water pollutant by volume in the United States. 
Sediment is the loose sand, clay, silt, and other soil particles that are
carried from a site by runoff water that eventually settles at the bottom
of streams, rivers, lakes, and ponds.  Sediment comes from soil erosion. 
Water runoff, stormwater from rain or melting snow, flows from roof tops,
over paved streets, sidewalks, parking lots, across bare soil, through
lawns and fields.  As it flows, the runoff collects and transports soil as
sediment, pet waste, salt, pesticides, fertilizer, oil and grease, litter,
and other potentially toxic pollutants.  This water drains directly into
storm drains or nearby drainage ways into creeks, streams, and rivers most
often without receiving any treatment at a sewage plant.

Sediment is the most common pollutant in our waterways.  While natural soil
erosion produces about 30 percent of waterway sedimentation, accelerated
erosion from human modifications of the land accounts for the remaining 70
percent.  The most concentrated sediment releases come from construction
activities, which can often exceed 100 times that from agricultural use of
the land. 

Why should you care? 

Sediment entering stormwater can cause severe water quality degradation of
the waterways that we depend on for our drinking water, that provide fish
and wildlife habitat, and that provide us with recreation in the form of
swimming, fishing, and boating.  Excess sediment can also cause flooding,
severe stream bank erosion, and undesirable physical and chemical changes
to our lakes and ponds.  It increases the cost of treating our drinking
water and it can affect the odor and taste.  Sediment fills up storm
drains, catch basins, roadside ditches, and streams creating costly
drainage, flooding, and associated problems.  Nutrients transported by
sediment can activate blue-green algae that release toxins that make
swimmers sick.  Sediment deposition in rivers can alter the flow of water
and reduce water depth, making navigation and recreational use more
difficult.  Water polluted by sediment disrupts the natural food chain by
destroying the habitat of the smallest stream organisms and causing massive
declines in fish populations.  It can also cause the water to become
cloudy, preventing animals from seeing food.

Sediment can clog fish gills, which reduces resistance to disease, lowers
growth rates, and affects fish egg and larvae development.  Murky water
prevents natural vegetation from growing. Sediment pollution causes an
estimated $16 billion in environmental damage each year in the U.S. 

Truly, an ounce of prevention could save a pound of cure, and free up funds
for other priority issues.
 
