ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
DATE:

February 20, 2007

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:09 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

5:31 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

Attending Members
Joanne Sanders, Chair
Paul Bateman
Lance Langsford
Lynn McWhirter
Lincoln Plowman

Absent Members
Vernon Brown
Jackie Nytes

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 15, 2007 - reappoints Councillor Marilyn Pfisterer to the City-County
Internal Audit Committee
“Do Pass”
Vote 5-0
PROPOSAL NO. 57, 2007 - appoints Gregory H. Coleman to the Indianapolis Marion County
Building Authority Board of Trustees
“Do Pass”
Vote 5-0
PROPOSAL NO. 58, 2007 - appoints Robert Lutz to the Equal Opportunity Advisory Board
“Do Pass”
Vote 5-0

ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
The Administration and Finance Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday,
February 20, 2007. Chair Joanne Sanders called the meeting to order at 5:09 p.m. with the
following members present: Paul Bateman, Lance Langford, Lynn McWhirter, and Lincoln
Plowman. Absent were Vernon Brown and Jackie Nytes.
Chair Sanders asked the Committee for consent to move Proposal No. 15, 2007 to the last item
on the agenda in order to allow time for Councillor Pfisterer to arrive. Consent was given.
PROPOSAL NO. 57, 2007 - appoints Gregory H. Coleman to the Indianapolis Marion County
Building Authority Board of Trustees
Mr. Coleman said that he has been an Attorney in private practice for the last 17 years, and his
primary area of expertise is General Practice. He said that he was a Commissioner in the former
Municipal County Courts for approximately six years. He said that he was approached by Aaron
Haith, General Counsel to the City Council, about being involved in changes associated with the
City-County Building (CCB) due to his knowledge and history with the courts. He said that he is
honored to be involved, and he likes the direction in which the CCB is going. Mr. Coleman said
if there is any way that he can be an asset in ensuring more positive results, that he is pleased to
be of service. He said that he believes that the CCB is one of the foundations of downtown
Indianapolis.
Chair Sanders asked Mr. Coleman if this would be his first appointment to a city board or
commission. Mr. Coleman answered in the affirmative.
Councillor Plowman asked if a background check has been completed for Mr. Coleman.
NaTrina Moffett, Clerk of the Administration and Finance Committee, answered in the
affirmative.
Councillor Langsford moved, seconded by Councillor Bateman, to forward Proposal No. 57,
2007 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 58, 2007 - appoints Robert Lutz to the Equal Opportunity Advisory Board
Mr. Lutz said that he has been a practicing Attorney in Marion County for over 26-years,
primarily in General Practice. He said that he was a judge in Wayne Township Small Claims
Court from January 1, 1995 to December 31, 2006. With spare time now available, Councillors
Borst and McWhirter asked him if he would be willing to serve on the Board.
Councillor Plowman asked if a background check has been completed for Mr. Lutz. Ms. Moffett
answered in the affirmative.
Mr. Lutz informed the Committee that he is a candidate for nomination in the Primary for
Council District 13. He said that if he is successful in the election, he will have to resign from
the Board. Chair Sanders said that she believes that as a candidate, Mr. Lutz could at least serve
for the first year. She asked Mr. Lutz if he would be willing to serve for that year. Mr. Lutz
answered in the affirmative. Councillor McWhirter said that when she and Councillor Borst
asked Mr. Lutz to join the Board, he was not a candidate. She said that she believes that the

Administration and Finance Committee
February 20, 2007
Page 3
years that Mr. Lutz would be able to serve would be very beneficial to the Board, due to his law
background.
Councillor McWhirter moved, seconded by Councillor Bateman, to forward Proposal No. 58,
2007 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Lutz asked if he will be notified once the Proposal is made official by the full Council.
Chair Sanders answered in the affirmative.
[Clerk’s note: Chair Sanders called for a 10-minute recess at 5:17 pm to allow time for
Councillor Pfisterer to arrive.]
Chair Sanders called the meeting back to order at 5:27 p.m.
PROPOSAL NO. 15, 2007 - reappoints Councillor Marilyn Pfisterer to the City-County
Internal Audit Committee
Councillor Pfisterer said that her involvement with the Internal Audit Committee has been
comprised of about two meetings; therefore, she is still on the learning curve. However, she
perceives the experience to be a great check and balance for the City, an opportunity to observe
some of the inner workings of the budget and expenditure process, and an opportunity to grasp
the effective or ineffective aspects of the process. She said that she is looking forward to serving
another term. Chair Sanders said that the Administration Committee appreciates that Councillor
Pfisterer is willing to serve on the Audit Committee, and she believes that this year may be more
challenging for that Committee based on some information received relative to federal reporting
requirements for grant funding. Chair Sanders said that hopefully additional checks and balances
will be established that will keep the City and the County moving forward with regard to
reporting to the federal government on some of the grants that are received. Councillor Pfisterer
said that having someone on the Audit Committee that is a professional Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) is also very reassuring.
Councillor Langsford moved, seconded by Councillor McWhirter, to forward Proposal No. 15,
2007 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Chair Sanders welcomed Councillor Lance Langsford back from serving the past year in
Afghanistan. She said that the Committee appreciates that he is back with the Council in good
health.
With no further business pending, and upon motion duly made, the Administration and Finance
Committee of the City-County Council was adjourned at 5:31 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Joanne Sanders, Chair
Administration and Finance Committee

