RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE
DATE:

April 9, 2013

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:32 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

5:38 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
ATTENDING MEMBERS
Maggie Lewis, Chair
John Barth
Robert Lutz
Brian Mahern
Angela Mansfield
Michael McQuillen
Steve Talley

ABSENT MEMBERS
Vernon Brown

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 91, 2013 - reappoints John Beaman to the Common Construction
Wage Committee for Center Township
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 102, 2013 - reappoints James G. Ochs to the Common Construction
Wage Committee for Speedway
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 52, 2013 - amends the Code to adopt new provisions within Chapter
575 regarding the elimination of graffiti
“Postponed” until May 7, 2013
Vote: 7-0

RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE
The Rules and Public Policy Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday,
April 9, 2013 in Room 260 of the City-County Building. Chair Maggie Lewis called the
meeting to order at 5:32 p.m. with the following members present: John Barth, Robert
Lutz, Brian Mahern, Angela Mansfield, Michael McQuillen and Steve Talley. Vernon
Brown was absent.
Chair Lewis asked committee members to introduce themselves and indicate which
portion of the County they represent. She welcomed Councillor Talley as a new
member of the Committee
PROPOSAL NO. 91, 2013 - reappoints John Beaman to the Common Construction
Wage Committee for Center Township
Mr. Beaman said he has lived in Center Township all his life, attended and graduated
from Indianapolis Public Schools, and served most recently as a steam fitter. He said
that he has worked in the constrution industry since 1976, sat on several Prevailing
Wage Boards (which is what the Common Construction Wage Committees used to be
called), and has served on this committee, as well as the construction wage board for
the Capital Improvement Board of Managers and the government center. He said that
he is familiar with benefits and wages of the construction industry, as his dad owned his
own construction business since 1963, and he worked for him until 1993
Councillor McQuillen asked when Mr. Beaman was first appointed to this committee,
and how many terms he has served. Mr. Beaman said that he believes he was
appointed six years ago. Councillor McQuillen said that he is glad to see a great
attendance record at meetings. Mr. Beaman said that he believes that was why he was
initially asked to serve, because of his attendance record on other boards, and those
serving on this committee were not attending regularly enough to get a quorum.
Councillor Lutz moved, seconded by Councillor Barth, to send Proposal No. 91, 2013 to
the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 102, 2013 - reappoints James G. Ochs to the Common Construction
Wage Committee for Speedway
Mr. Ochs stated that he was first appointed to the Common Construction Wage
Committee for Speedway in 2009. He is a retired architect and has dealt with the
Common Construction Wage Committee for many years and is familiar with what they
do. He said that he is excited about the re-development happening in Speedway. He
has lived in Indianapolis since 1961, and in Speedway since 1972.
Councillor Lutz said that Mr. Ochs has been his neighbor for 23 or 24 years, their kids
grew up together, and he has known him for a very long time. He said that he would
highly recommend his appointment for this position.

Rules and Public Policy Committee
April 9, 2013
Page 2
Councillor McQuillen said that the committee does not have any attendance records for
Mr. Ochs and asked if he knows how many meetings he attended. Mr. Ochs said that
every time he was contacted for a meeting, he was able to attend.
Councillor Barth moved, seconded by Councillor Lutz, to send Proposal No. 102, 2013
to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The motion carried by a vote of 70.
PROPOSAL NO. 52, 2013 - amends the Code to adopt new provisions within Chapter
575 regarding the elimination of graffiti
Councillor Barth said that the sponsor of this proposal, Councillor Jeff Miller, is travelling
on business, and is still working with a task force to review the proposal and has asked
for a postponement until the next meeting.
Councillor Barth moved, seconded by Councillor Talley, to “Postpone” Proposal No. 52,
2013 until May 7, 2013. The motion carried by a vote of 7-0
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the Rules and Public
Policy Committee was adjourned at 5:38 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Maggie A. Lewis, Chair
MAL/ag

