RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE

DATE:

March 13, 2012

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:34 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

5:50 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Brian Mahern, Chairman
John Barth
Monroe Gray
Maggie Lewis
Robert Lutz
Angela Mansfield
Michael McQuillen

ABSENT MEMBERS
Vernon Brown

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 105, 2012 - appoints Barbara Howard to the Alcoholic Beverage
Board of Marion County
“Do Pass”
Vote: 7-0
PROPOSAL NO. 106, 2012 - amends Sec. 151-30 of the Code to establish additional
procedures for committee actions on proposals
“Do Pass” (FAILED)
Vote: 2-5

RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE
The Rules and Public Policy Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday,
March 13, 2012. Chairman Brian Mahern called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m. with
the following members present: John Barth, Monroe Gray, Maggie Lewis, Robert Lutz,
Angela Mansfield and Michael McQuillen. Vernon Brown was absent.
Chairman Mahern asked committee members to introduce themselves and indicate
which portion of the County they represent.
PROPOSAL NO. 105, 2012 - appoints Barbara Howard to the Alcoholic Beverage
Board of Marion County
Ms. Howard stated that she has been a resident of the Butler-Tarkington area for 45
years. She is retired from a 42-year career in community relations for the Financial
Center. She said that she has served on many boards, including six years on the
Waterworks Board, serving both as chair and co-chair. She said that she was not a
member of the board when the Water Company was sold to Citizens Energy Group.
She added that she has a strong desire to serve the community and feels she can
assist in this position.
Councillor Gray noted that former Sheriff Frank Anderson is listed as a reference on Ms.
Howard’s information page. Ms. Howard said that Mr. Anderson is a fine citizen and
gives a lot back to the community, and she is privileged to call him a friend.
Councillor McQuillen said that he appreciates Ms. Howard’s willingness to serve. He
asked for confirmation that Ms. Howard lives inside Marion County. Ms. Howard stated
that she does. Councillor McQuillen asked if Ms. Howard has any financial interest in
any local bars or taverns. Ms. Howard responded that she does not.
Councillor Lewis moved, seconded by Councillors Mansfield, Lutz and Barth, to send
Proposal No. 105, 2012 to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation. The
motion carried by a vote of 7-0.
PROPOSAL NO. 106, 2012 - amends Sec. 151-30 of the Code to establish additional
procedures for committee actions on proposals
Councillor McQuillen said that one thing he has found to be true in the last four years is
that reasonable minds can get through misunderstandings if conversations take place
before a matter is put forward. He said that, in the past, matters have been heard in
committee unevenly, with some chairs always listening and allowing for discussion and
others summarily casting off an item with a motion to table without affording the
sponsoring Councillor or the public to speak. He said that he tried to show
consideration in this regard when he served as chair and at least tried to let a sponsor
know if their item would be heard in a meeting or not. He said that with all of the
meeting agendas being published on the website, there may be members of the public

Rules and Public Policy Committee
March 13, 2012
Page 2
who have rearranged their schedules to attend a meeting, and they should be afforded
the courtesy to speak on an advertised matter that they feel strongly about. He said
that this proposal simply provides that within 30 days of introducing a proposal, a
sponsoring Councillor should have the opportunity to present the matter before a
committee and the public should be allowed the opportunity to comment, before a
matter is summarily dismissed with an action such as tabling. He said that the proposal
simply eliminates the uneven handling of such matters among chairs and puts a definite
procedure in place.
Councillor Mansfield said that she can appreciate the reasoning behind Councillor
McQuillen suggesting this proposal, but she is not supportive of it for several reasons.
She said that this would take away the discretion each committee and chair should
continue to have. She said that there are times, when only one item is assigned for
action to a committee, that a chair would prudently choose not to have a meeting to be
more cost efficient. Adding this 30-day language would not allow them to make that
decision. She added that while she generally believes that a sponsor should be able to
present a proposal, there might be circumstances where this should not happen. It is
also maybe not necessary for the public to comment on every proposal. She referred to
a piece of legislation offered a few years ago by then-Councillor Mike Speedy with
breed-specific language regarding dogs and animal control. She said that this was a
very volatile piece of legislation, and taking public comment on the issue would have
turned into a circus. She said that while she understands what Councillor McQuillen is
trying to do, she cannot support it.
Councillor Lutz stated that in the case of the breed-specific legislation, Councillor
Speedy was afforded the courtesy of presenting his proposal and airing his views before
it was tabled. He said that he believes it was tabled before public testimony was
allowed, but at least the sponsor was allowed to get their reasoning for introducing such
legislation out to the public. He added that he completely understands the concerns
about the 30-day language, as it makes sense from a cost-analysis perspective not to
hold meetings for one agenda item. However, something is needed to insure that a
sponsoring Councillor at least has the opportunity to present a proposal that has been
properly introduced, so that the public and fellow Councillors are able to understand the
thought process that motivated them to bring the matter forward.
Councillor McQuillen thanked the chair for allowing him to present his proposal this
evening, and he moved, seconded by Councillor Lutz, to send Proposal No. 106, 2012
to the full Council with a “Do Pass” recommendation.
Chair Mahern said that he agrees with Councillor Mansfield’s comments, and while he
appreciates the effort, a committee needs to exercise a broad range of discretion
because the public trusts them to do what they are charged to do, and they do not
always need to hear every matter brought forward. To say “always” or “never” removes
the discretion the committee is charged with exercising, and he cannot support such
language.

Rules and Public Policy Committee
March 13, 2012
Page 3
Councillor Lutz stated that it concerns him when someone says there are times when
the public does not need to hear what they are considering. Chair Mahern said that
discretion is excercised by Councillors every day. Even introducing this proposal is a
form of discretion. What committee a proposal is assigned to exercises discretion, as
does deciding when the proposal comes before a committee. He said that there is a
need for discretion, especially in certain circumstances. He said that they are not just
charged with hearing and voting on proposals. He said that Councillor Lutz has been
recognized to speak twice and there has been vigorous discussion, and they need to
proceed to the vote and move on. Councillor Lutz said that by its very nature,
discussion allows for back-and-forth debate. He said that some good points have been
made, but cutting off debate is horrible public policy. He said that he understands there
needs to be discretion at times, but if a sponsor properly introduces a proposal, they
should, at the very least, have the opportunity to present it. If the chair chooses not to
take public testimony, he can understand that, but if a Councillor has taken the time to
draft a proposal and wants to present it, they should be allowed to do so in a public
meeting, so that the public can see what is going on. Chair Mahern said that most
proposals are aired in a public meeting, but to take away the discretion and mandate
“always” concerns him. He said that Councillor Lutz once chaired this same committee,
and he is sure there were times that Councillor Lutz made decisions in that
chairmanship that seemed prudent to him at the time. He said that the committee
structure works as it works, and the committee and the chair are charged with that
discretion. Councillor Lutz said that he does not think he was perfect as a chair, but
even when Councillor Mahern attended his meetings as a non-member, he never cut
him off, even though he was not a member of the committee and asked to speak more
than once on an issue. He said all Councillors should simply be afforded that same
courtesy.
Councillor Lewis said that she thinks discretion is important. She said that in her first
term, a majority of her proposals were tabled. Though the chair did have the courtesy
to call her and let her know her proposal would be tabled so that she did not have to
make the trip over to the hearing, they were tabled nonetheless. She said that she
questions the timing of this proposal, and understands trust does not come easily, but
something is to be said for leadership and committee chairs being afforded some
discretion.
The motion to send Proposal No. 106, 2012 to the full Council with a “Do Pass”
recommendation failed by a vote of 2-5, with Councillors Barth, Gray, Lewis, Mahern
and Mansfield casting the negative votes.

Rules and Public Policy Committee
March 13, 2012
Page 4
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the Rules and Public
Policy Committee was adjourned at 5:50 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Brian Mahern, Chairman
BM/ag

