RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE

DATE:

February 21, 2012

CALLED TO ORDER:

5:32 p.m.

ADJOURNED:

5:43 p.m.
ATTENDANCE

ATTENDING MEMBERS
Brian Mahern, Chairman
John Barth
Vernon Brown
Monroe Gray
Maggie Lewis
Robert Lutz
Angela Mansfield
Michael McQuillen

ABSENT MEMBERS

AGENDA
PROPOSAL NO. 44, 2012 - amends the Code with respect to council rules for
committee appointments
“Tabled”
Vote: 4-2-1
PROPOSAL NO. 69, 2012 - amends the Code requiring that any ordinance or resolution
that has been vetoed by the mayor be scheduled on the subsequent council agenda for
reconsideration as a special order of unfinished business
“Do Pass As Amended”
Vote: 7-1

RULES AND PUBLIC POLICY COMMITTEE
The Rules and Public Policy Committee of the City-County Council met on Tuesday,
February 21, 2012 Chairman Brian Mahern called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.
with the following members present: John Barth, Vernon Brown, Monroe Gray, Maggie
Lewis, Robert Lutz, and Michael McQuillen. Angela Mansfield arrived shortly thereafter.
Councillor Benjamin Hunter was also in attendance. General Counsel Fred Biesecker
represented Council staff.
Chairman Mahern asked committee members to introduce themselves and indicate
which portion of the County they represent.
PROPOSAL NO. 44, 2012 - amends the Code with respect to council rules for
committee appointments
Councillor Gray moved, seconded by Councillor Lewis, to “Table” Proposal No. 44,
2012. The motion carried by a 4-2-1 vote, with Councillors Lutz and McQuillen casting
the negative votes and Councillor Brown abstaining.
Councillor Hunter stated that he understands the protocol that there is no discussion on
a motion to table. However, typically a sponsor of a properly introduced proposal who
comes before a committee as a non-member of that committee is usually afforded the
courtesy to speak on their proposal before it is tabled. He said that it would have been
nice to have been informed of the intention to table the proposal without comment
before he wasted the gas money coming down to appear and present his proposal.
{Clerk’s Note: Councillor Mansfield arrived at 5:34 p.m.}
Chairman Mahern said that since the proposal has been tabled, there is no further
discussion to be had.
Councillor Lutz said that there is no argument that the motion to table does not allow for
further discussion. He added, however, that it would be nice in the future, as a common
courtesy, that if the intention of the committee is to table a proposal without comment,
that the sponsor of the proposal be informed so that they are not wasting their time.
Chairman Mahern said that if he had received any indication ahead of time that the
proposal would be tabled, he would have let Councillor Hunter know, but there is no
way for him to predict the intentions of the committee.
PROPOSAL NO. 69, 2012 - amends the Code requiring that any ordinance or resolution
that has been vetoed by the mayor be scheduled on the subsequent council agenda for
reconsideration as a special order of unfinished business
Councillor McQuillen moved, seconded by Councillor Lutz, to “Table” Proposal No. 69,
2012. The motion failed by a vote of 2-6, with Councillors Barth, Brown, Gray, Lewis,
Mahern and Mansfield casting the negative votes.

Rules and Public Policy Committee
February 21, 2012
Page 2
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor Mansfield, to “Amend” Proposal No.
69, 2012 as per Exhibit A (attached). He said that this amendment simply includes line
item vetoes as items that would go back on the agenda for Council action at the next
meeting.
Councillor Mansfield said that she understand the intent of what Councillor Brown is
trying to accomplish with this proposal, but she is not sure this amended language
makes the intention explicit. General Counsel Biesecker said that without this
amendment, the proposal is internally inconsistent. He said that the major intent of the
proposal is found in the first line of Sec. 151-78; and the amendment makes the intent
parallel with respect to line item vetoes. He said that it eliminates the language that
requires a motion be made to make a line item veto an order of business. He said that
the remaining language simply allows that any member of the Council can ask for a
separate vote on line item vetoes. Councillor Mansfield asked if the way the proposal is
amended means that these items would automatically be placed on the agenda without
having to amend the agenda to add them. Mr. Biesecker responded in the affirmative.
The motion to “Amend” Proposal No. 69, 2012 as per Exhibit A carried by a vote of 7-1,
with Councillor McQuillen casting the negative vote.
Councillor McQuillen said that he kind of likes the idea of this proposal, and it could be a
time saver for the Council. He asked, however, what Councillor Brown’s reasoning is
behind the proposal, and if it is prompted by the fear that they may not have enough
majority party votes to add a vetoed item to the agenda. Councillor Brown said that this
proposal takes pressure off minority party members from having to take a stand and
vote to add a vetoed item to the agenda. He said that at the last meeting, two of the
Republicans who co-sponsored a proposal and voted to support it did not vote to put it
on the agenda for a second chance after a mayoral veto. He said that this takes the
pressure off of those individuals for having to vote against their conscience. Councillor
McQuillen asked if the proposal is then a time-saving mechanism to help the minority
party. Councillor Brown responded in the affirmative.
Councillor Brown moved, seconded by Councillor Mansfield, to send Proposal No. 69,
2012 to the full Council with a “Do Pass As Amended” recommendation. The motion
carried by a vote of 7-1, with Councillor McQuillen casting the negative vote.
There being no further business, and upon motion duly made, the Rules and Public
Policy Committee was adjourned at 5:43 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

BM/ag

Brian Mahern, Chairman

