City of Evansville
2017 Youth Sports Grant Guidelines
About
The City of Evansville initiated the Youth Sports Grant Fund in 1994. The fund was established
to help not-for-profit organizations facilitate youth sports programs. The grant monies will be
distributed to organizations that apply and meet requirements for application. As a reimbursable
grant, funding is granted to recipients after expenses have been incurred. The grantee must
complete the reporting requirements and procedures per the grant agreement to obtain the
reimbursement for expenses.
2017 Available Amount: $13,500.00
Applicant Requirements
Applicants must meet the following requirements for consideration.
Organizations:
 Must be have a not-for-profit organization certificate
 Must have an open/non-restrictive membership
 Program must be operated within the City of Evansville
Grant Restrictions
To make the most of the funds available, the following restrictions apply:
 Only one application per year per organization
 The request must be for capital improvement, supplies, equipment, participation
fees, etc.
 All grant monies awarded must be used for the purpose stated in the grant
application
 The organization must show financial need by submitting budget, finance report
or bank statement
 Applications will not be accepted from ISHAA approved organizations
Approvals & Notifications
Qualified applicants will be notified of the City Council’s Youth Sports Grant Subcommittee
meeting. A representative is required to attend the meeting to present the organization’s need
for the grant. The Subcommittee will make their recommendations to City Council. Upon City
Council’s approval, the grant agreements will then be submitted to the Board of Public Works for
consideration. Once approved, organizations will be mailed an award letter stating the amount
awarded and two copies of the grant agreement for signage. Checks will be processed and
distributed once detailed invoices/receipts are received by the City Clerk’s Office.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Reporting Requirements & Important Dates
Failure to comply with deadlines will result in forfeiture of grant award.
Application Deadline:
February 24, 2017
5:00 p.m.
Subcommittee Meeting:
TBD
Signed Contracts Due:
May 26, 2017
5:00 p.m.
Services of grant completed:
on or before September 1, 2017
Detailed invoices & receipts due:
September 15, 2017 5:00 p.m.
Annual Report due:
December 31, 2017 5:00 p.m.

